FSUMROWS (May99)              ftools.futils             FSUMROWS (May99)



NAME
    fsumrows -- Sum or average values from a list of table columns  over
    a specified range of rows.
    
    
USAGE
    fsumrows infile outfile cols rows operation
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    Create  a table from data summed or averaged from a table extension.
    An arbitrary list of columns, and range of rows may be  selected  to
    to  be  SUMmed  or  AVeraGed.  The resulting single row table can be
    placed into a new file or appended to an already existing file as  a
    table extension.
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [filename]
        The  FITS  file  to read.  If no extension is given, the program
        tries to read the the first extension.
    
    outfile [filename]
        The FITS file to which to write the new  table.   Any  extension
        given  is  ignored.   If  the  file  does  not exist, it will be
        created with a primary array followed by a table extension.   If
        the  ouput file exists, the output table will be appended to the
        output file unless the clobber parameter is set to 'yes'.
    
    cols [string]
        The names of all the columns to be listed in  the  output.   The
        names  may  be  either the exact name of the column, or they may
        contain wildcard characters (*, ?, or #), or  they  may  contain
        the  integer number of the desired column (with the first column
        = 1).  The '*' wild  card  character  matches  any  sequence  of
        characters  (including  zero  characters)  and the '?' character
        matches any single character.  The '#' wildcard will  match  any
        consecutive  string  of decimal digits (0-9).  If  no names  are
        given,  then by default all the columns in  the  table  will  be
        processed.   The  column names must be  separated  by  commas or
        spaces  in the list.  If a column name  contains  a  space,  the
        name must be enclosed in double quotes (").   If  any  names  in
        the  column  list are enclosed in double quotes, the entire list
        must be enclosed in single quotes (').  eg '"column 1",column2'
        
        Optionally the list of column names can be placed  in  an  ASCII
        file,  one  name  per  line,  and  then  the  name  of the file,
        proceeded by an "@" character may  be  given  to  the  "columns"
        parameter.
        
        The  'flcol'  task  (with  the  NLIST parameter set to 1) may be
        used to generate a list of column names suitable  for  input  to
        this task.
    
    rows [string]
        A list of row ranges to  process.   Ranges  can  be  in  reverse
        order  (ie,  hi  to  low) or can leave off one (or both) ends to
        indicate a range starting with the  first  or  ending  with  the
        last row in the extension.
    
    operation = "SUM" [string]
        The  operation  to  perform  on  the  data.  "SUM" combines each
        input row into a single, summed  array.   "AVG"  also  sums  the
        data,  but  before  outputting  the array renormalizes it by the
        number or rows read.  "SUM" and "AVG" create a table  containing
        a  single row.  The data type of the columns in the output table
        is single precision float  in  order  to  avoid  overflows  when
        summing  and  truncations when averaging, unless sametype = yes,
        in which case the datatype of the column remains the same as  in
        the input table.
    
    (nullval = -99) [int]
        The  numerical  value  to  assign  to  NULLs found in an integer
        column of an input ASCII table extension.  In  all  other  cases
        the  TNULLn  or  BLANK  keyword from the input extension is used
        instead for integer data and NaN for real data.
    
    (clobber = no) [boolean]
        If outfile already exists and clobber=yes,  outfile  is  deleted
        and  a new file created with the output table going into a table
        extension.  If clobber=no, the table  will  be  appended  to  an
        already existing file, aborting if the file does not exist.
    
    (sametype = no) [boolean]
        If  set  equal  to  yes, then the datatype of the columns in the
        output table will remain the same as in the input  table.   This
        could  cause  overflow  errors  or loss of precision for integer
        datatype columns.
    
    
EXAMPLES
    1. Sum the entire column CCDFRAME (an array)  from  extension  3  of
    file  OBSERV.FITS  into  a  table  in a new file named OBJECT3.FITS.
    NULLs should be assigned values of -9 in the resulting image.
    
        fi> fsumrows OBSERV.FITS[3] OBJECT3.FITS CCDFRAME - sum
        clobber=yes nullval=-9
    
    2. Average rows 1-3, row 5, and all rows 9 and  higher  of  CCDFRAME
    and append the result to OBJECT3.FITS.
    
        fi> fsumrows OBSERV.FITS[3] OBJECT3.FITS CCDFRAME 1-3,5,9-
        operation=AVG
    
    
BUGS
    
    
SEE ALSO
