ASPECT (Jun99)                   ASTROE                   ASPECT (Jun99)




NAME 
    aspect -- calculate the mean pointing for an attitude file.
    
    
    
USAGE 
        aspect infile outfile verbose
    
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    
    This tool calculates the mean pointing for a  given  attitude  file.
    In  reality  the calculation is more complex than a simple mean. The
    algorithm is to first create a  histogram  of  the  amount  of  time
    spent  at  each  R.A. and Dec, then to pick the bin with the largest
    time and calculate the  mean  R.A.,  Dec.  and  Roll  Angle  of  the
    spacecraft axes while the Z axis was in this bin.
    
    This  method  avoid problems when the attitude is stable for most of
    the observation, but has a large motion at the beginning or  end  of
    the file due to settling or slewing.
    
    In  general  telescope  axes  are  not  aligned  perfectly  with the
    spacecraft axes. The tool is able to read an  optional  misalignment
    matrix,  in  which  case  the result is orientation of a set of axes
    offset from the spacecraft axes.
    
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    attfile [string]
        This is the name of the attitude file to be read.
    
    
    alignfile [string]
        If this parameter is set to "NONE" then the  results  will  give
        the  mean  orientation of the spacecraft axes. If name of a file
        containing a misalignment matrix  is  given,  then  the  results
        will  be  the mean orientation of axes offset from the spaceraft
        axes. The format for the misalignment matrix is the same as  for
        TELDEF files (i.e. used ALIGNnm keywords in the primary header).
    
    
    (nbins = 100) [integer]
        Number   of  bins  to  use  in  attitude  histogram.  Since  the 
        histogram is  two  dimensional  the  total  number  of  bins  is
        nbins*nbins
    
    
    (binsize = 0.01) [real]
        Ideal  size  of  a  bin in degrees. This value should ideally be
        set close to the error in the pointing stability.
    
    
    (maxrot = 0.01) [real]
        Maximum rotation angle between adjacent  attitude  "point"  when
        binning  the  attitude in degrees. Smaller values will cause the
        program to run more slowly,  but  higher  values  may  represent
        quick motions incorrectly.  The best value is close to binsize.
    
    
    (ra) [real]
        The  mean  Right  Ascension  is  written  to  this  parameter in
        decimal degrees.
    
    
    (dec) [real]
        The mean Declination is written to  this  parameter  in  decimal
        degrees.
    
    
    (roll) [real]
        The  mean  Roll  Angle  is  written to this parameter in decimal
        degrees.
    
    
    
EXAMPLES
    
    
    
BUGS
    
