ASMAPPEND (4.0)                   April                  ASMAPPEND (4.0)



NAME
    asmappend -- Reads in an ASM master file and a series of files  that
    are sorted and appended to the master file.
    
    
USAGE
    asmappend masterfile infile(s)
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    A  masterfile  containing  ASM  data is modified by adding data from
    other supplied files. The infiles are sorted by according to  TSTART
    with  the  earliest  being  assigned  as the MASTERFILE (this should
    always be true anyway) then  the  remaining  files  are  sorted  and
    added   to   the  masterfile  according  to  times  and  information 
    contained in the files. If the same time exists in  2  files  it  is
    assumed  that  the values in the later file (according to TSTART) is
    correct and the earlier values will be overwritten.  The  code  will
    add  rows  anywhere  in  the  file and modify all necessary keywords
    such that the resulting file is a proper FITS file.
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    masterfile [string - file name]
        The name of the ASM master file (and extension number in  square
        brackets  or  as  +N)  to  which  all subsequent files are to be
        added. This file MUST contain the earliest  start  time,  if  it
        doesn't  then  the  file with the earliest time is assumed to be
        the  master  file  and  the  file  which  was  entered  as   the 
        MASTERFILE  is  added  to  the  list of files to be added to the
        earliest file. (The first extension is the default.)
    
    infile [string - file name or @filename]
        The  name of the input ASM FITS file (and  extension  number  in
        square  brackets  the  first  is the default) to be binned, or a
        file containing several input  FITS  filenames   to   be   acted
        upon   which  is  denoted by an "at" sign (@file_of_infiles). (A
        maximum of 100 separate files are supported at this time.)
    
    mode = ql [string -> ql = query learn]
        This option  allows  the  PAR  file  to  be  updated  with  each
        successfully completed run so that the defaults are changed.
    
    
EXAMPLES
    1. Sort and append one or several ASM FITS files to a MASTERFILE.
    asmappend masterfile.fits+1 @infiles 
    
    
NOTES:
    
    
MODIFICATIONS:
    
    
BUGS
    
    Version ASMAPPEND_V3.5.2
        Has  been  tested and verified with the MIT delivered data files
        (unfortunately there are problems with the  AS  DELIVERED  files
        which a PERL script will have to modify).
    
    Version ASMAPPEND_V4.0
        
    
    Please report problems to xtehelp@athena.gsfc.nasa.gov.
