    
AUTOMERGE
	
USAGE
    automerge -i catfile -o outfile -g grating -d detector -f filter
	    
DESCRIPTION

 This script creates a list of EXOSAT LE event files for a given observation,
 and than runs the task 'exomerge' to output a merged event file. 
 The list of event files to be merged will contain files selected from basic 
 user input parameters and pre-set flags obtained from the catalog file 
 associated to each observation.
 The user input parameters are detector name, filter name and if the grating 
 is in use. The file list is processed by 'exomerge' which creates the merged
 event file (see also the help on exomerge). This script is intended to work
 for EXOSAT LE raw data files as stored in the HEASARC archive. Data from each
 observation are recorded in several event and housekeeping files. A new file
 was created either after a few hours of observing time (ranging between 2-4)
 or because of changes in one or more observational parameters. To each 
 observation is also associated a catalog file and an orbit file. The user 
 should download from the archive all the files associated to each 
 observation. These are: 1) The catalog FITS file (.cat extension) lists the 
 available event files and provides information on the observation set-up. 
 This file is the input file for the script and it is used to discard any 
 time interval or file with the paramater SUBMODE set to inactive. 
 2) The FITS event files (.fits extension) are used by 'exomerge' to 
 create the merged event file.  3) The housekeeping and orbit files also 
 used in 'exomerge'.

FLAGS:
     -h - Prints this help file
     -y - overwrite an existing FITS file 
     -v - verbose mode

    the following flags require arguments
     -i - input catalog file 
     -o - output FITS file name 
     -d - detector [input value: CMA or PSD]
     -f - filter. Input only one filter [input value: 3Lx, 4Lx, Al/P, Bor, PPL]
     -g - transmission grating position [input value: in or out]

EXAMPLES

    Using the catalog file ex850218_1954_1718cma1.cat create a merged event
    file, out.evt, using data taken with the CMA1 detector and filter 3Lx
    but excluding grating data. 

  > automerge -i ex850218_1954_1718cma1.cat -o out.evt -g out -d cma -f 3Lx

