DECODEEVT (Aug98)              ftools.xte              DECODEEVT (Aug98)



NAME
    decodeevt -- Decodes event keywords in XTE Science Event files
    
    
USAGE
    decodeevt infile outfile
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    This task decodes event keywords in an input XTE Science Event file,
    and generates more user-friendly column names.  The task should work
    with  any  RXTE  PCA  event  mode  data  set,  excluding specialized
    "Alpha", "2LLD", and "VLE" event types.  The task also decodes  data
    files  of  GoodXenon  (or  GoodXenonWithPropane) type that have been
    reassembled by the xenon2fits task (in 'X' mode).
    
    The task outputs data in one of two formats, depending on the user's
    choice.   The default mode is outformat='A'.  In this mode, the task
    creates an output file with  separate  columns  for  TIME,  CHANNEL,
    PCUID, ANODE, and PROPANE. If no PCUID information (integer: 0-4) is
    available in the input file, the values in the output column are set
    to  -999.  If  no  ANODE  information  (string:  "X1R"/"X3L" etc) is
    available, the column contains INDEFs.  If  no  PROPANE  information
    (bit  0/1)  is  available,  this column is not written to the output
    file.  Although this output file format is the default for  backward
    compatibility  purposes, the format is not particularly suitable for
    subsequent processing with standard tools.
    
    The second mode is outformat='OGIP'.  This mode represents an  event
    format  this  is more compatible with OGIP-standard tools.  However,
    in  this  mode,  the  binary  "Event"   column   is   retained   for 
    compatibility  with  'seextrct'.  Thus,  it  should  be  possible to
    filter the data using fselect or  xselect  and  then  make  a  light
    curve  or  spectrum  with 'seextrct' without using a bitmask filter.
    The output columns in this mode are  TIME,  Event,  PCUID,  ANODEID,
    and  PHA.   The PCUID column contains the PCU detector number (0-4).
    If the corresponding data is not available for a  given  input  data
    mode, then PCUID, ANODEID or PHA may be set to a NULL value.
    
    The  ANODEID  column  contains information about which anode (layer)
    was hit.  The possible values  and  anode  identifiers  for  ANODEID
    are:  10 (X1L), 11 (X1R), 20 (X2L), 21 (X2R), 30 (X3L), 31 (X3R), 40
    (VPR = Propane).  In other words, the "tens"  digit  contains  layer
    number and the "ones" digit contains left (=0) or right (=1) chain.
    
    Finally, the PHA column contains the bin number for this event mode.
    
    IMPORTANT  NOTE:  In  mode 'O'GIP, the PHA bin number corresponds to
    the bin number assigned by the on-board rebinning logic.   For  many
    event  modes, there are only 16, 32, 64 or 128 bins, which have been
    reduced  from  the  native  249  bins  recorded  by   the   sampling 
    electronics.   Users  should take care to do filtering of the PHA in
    this rebinned space.
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [string - file name]
        The name of input Science Event file.
    
    outfile [string - file name]
        The name of output file.
    
    outformat [string - output format]
        Format of output file, either "OGIP" for OGIP-style  event  file
        or   "A"   for   non-standard   output.    Default  is  "A"  for 
        compatibility.
    
    (clobber = no) [boolean]
        If "yes", an existing file with the same name as  the  requested
        output file will be overwritten.
        
        
EXAMPLES
    1.  Decode a Science Event file using DECODEEVT.
    decodeevt infile=mySEfile outfile=myoutfile
    
    
NOTES:
    This tool supercedes the old, obselete SEEXPD.
    
    
BUGS
    Please report problems to xtehelp@athena.gsfc.nasa.gov.
    
    
SEE ALSO
