DESCRIPTION:

XSUT is a tool designed by the RXTE GOF to help in selectively untarring
RXTE data tapes or tar files (eg, resulting from downloading archived
data) via a graphical user interface (GUI). Note that it is NOT a general
untarring GUI; it is specifically designed to handle the particular
obsid/appid layout of RXTE data trees. It is most useful in those cases
when one does not necessarily want to unpack the entire tape or archive
file, for example because of disk space constraints. If disk space is
not an issue one will almost certainly find it faster to simply untar
the whole tape and then delete the unneeded portions, since XSUT must
first scan the entire tape or archive file before doing anything else.

                                IMPORTANT!
XSUT is designed as a front-end to the GNU tar program and takes advantage
of several of its unique features.  You must have GNU tar installed
and visible in your search path to use this tool.  If you don't already
have GNU tar you'll have to get it (eg, from prep.ai.mit.edu or mirror
sites) and then follow the simple instructions to build and install it 
so that it shows up in your search path as either "gtar", "gnutar", or
just "tar".


USAGE:

First, invoke XSUT while in the directory into which you'll ultimately
want to extract the data files. To do this, make sure you're set up to
access FTOOLS v4.1 as usual and then just type "xsut".

(For simplicity, hereafter in these instructions we will refer to a
"tape" but the tool works exactly the same when applied to a tar file on
disk which contains a normal RXTE data tree. The tar file may be gzipped
as long as it has the suffix ".tar.gz" or ".tgz")

Next, point the tool either at the tape device onto which you've put your
RXTE data tape or directly at your tar file on disk.  Type the name of
your tape device (or pathname of the tar file) in the entry box next to
the "Scan" button (eg, "/dev/rst0") and then press "Scan". Note that you
can even access a tape device on another networked machine if necessary
by using the convention "othermachine:/dev/rst0" for the device name.

While the tape is being scanned you will see an informational placard
which will indicate the progress of the scan. It may well take 30 minutes
or more to scan your entire tape!

Once the scan is complete the listboxes on the main GUI should display
all of the ObsIds which were found on the tape and a complete list of
files under those ObsIds. The next step is to select the ObsIds and/or
files you want to extract using either the drop-down menus or just by
doing "point-and-click" in the listboxes. The "Files" menu provides
a handy mechanism to select particular groups of files, eg, Standard
Products, PCA Custom Modes, Housekeeping, etc. This "Specific AppIds"
submenu is a so-called "tearoff" (indicated by the dotted line at the
top); by clicking on that dotted line you can keep the menu up on your
screen for repeated selections even when the main (Files) menu is closed.

<NOTE--to select multiple entries in the listboxes you probably need to
hold down the CNTRL key while clicking, though this may vary depending
on your choice of window manager.>

You can play around with the ObsId/File selections all you like.  Pressing
the "Apply selections" button at any time will update the displayed file
list according to your selected criteria and will also tell you how much
disk space it would take to extract the currently selected files.

Once you're satisfied with the displayed list of files, press the
"Extract" button and wait for the selected files to be extracted to the
current directory. The informational placard will once again pop-up to
show the progress of the file extraction.

-----
Please address any problem reports, questions or comments to:
 xtehelp@athena.gsfc.nasa.gov
