HKEXPAND (Feb98)             ftools.heasarc             HKEXPAND (Feb98)



NAME
    hkexpand -- Expand an ASCA Housekeeping  data  table  in  compressed
    format into a full sized table with one column per HK parameter.
    
    
USAGE
    hkexpand infile[ext#] outfile
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    This  task  expands an ASCA compressed FITS Housekeeping data table.
    A compressed table contains just 3 columns  (time,  parameter  name,
    and  parameter value) which list the new value of every housekeeping
    (HK) parameter whenever it has  changed  from  its  previous  value.
    The  uncompressed table that is produced by this task has a separate
    column for each HK parameter.  This is generally  much  larger  than
    the  compressed format table because the value of every HK parameter
    must be written to the table whenever any single  parameter  changes
    its value.
    
    
    The  input  table  is assumed to be sorted in increasing time order.
    The  time  column  is  in  double  precision  format.   The   output 
    parameters  can  be  either  scalar(real  or  integer)  or character
    string(with maximum length of 30). You are free to  choose  whatever
    scalar  data-type  you  like  in  the  output file regardless of the
    data-type from the input file.  However,  you  are  not  allowed  to
    converted  a  string  column  in the input to  scalar columns in the
    output or vice versa.
    
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [filename]
        The file name and extension number in  square  brackets  of  the
        input compressed format HK table.
    
    outfile [filename]
        The name of the output expanded FITS table.
    
    (param = " ") [string]
        A  list  of  House  Keeping  parameter  names to be place in the
        expanded  output  FITS  file.  A  blank  string  signifies   all 
        parameters.
    
    (dtime = 0.0) [double]
        The  time  interval  between  writing  current  values  of House
        Keeping parameters to the output FITS file.   A  Negative  dtime
        value  is  only served as a flag. A value between -1 and 0( -1 <
        dtime <=0.0) indicates that  parameters  are   written   to  the
        output  file  only  for  time  stamps  found in the time ordered
        input FITS file. For dtime <= -1.0, in addition to the  previous
        feature,  the required parameters are only written to the output
        file if  at least one of them has been changed.
        
        
    
    (name = "name") [string]
        The column name in the input table containing  the  housekeeping
        parameter names.
    
    (value = "value") [string]
        The  column  name in the input table containing the housekeeping
        parameter values.
    
    (time = "time") [string]
        The column name in the input table containing  the  housekeeping
        parameter time stamp.
    
    (tnull = " ") [string]
        The  TNULL  keyword  value  for  undefined table values. A blank
        indicates no TNULL keywords are to be  generated.  However,  for
        string  values(type  "A"), the tnull is always " " regardless of
        what tnull string is given.
    
    (outtype = " ") [string]
        The data type of output columns.  The outtype can  be  specified
        as   "F"  or"E"  (single  precision  real),  "R"  or  "D"(double 
        precision real), "B"(Byte), "S"(2  byte  short  integer),  "I"(4
        byte  integer), and "A"(string with 30 characters).  However, if
        none of the above is given, the type of the VALUE in  the  input
        file  is used.  (OBSOLETE: If outtype is "R", the output columns
        are real numbers.  If  outtype  is  anything  else,  the  output
        values are integer.)
    
    (constdiv = "yes") [boolean]
        If  true,  and  if dtime > 0, then the output is written only at
        integral multiples of dtime.  If false, and dtime > 0, then  the
        output  is  written  at integral multiples of dtime, unless some
        parameter's value changes within the  interval,  in  which  case
        the  change is also written out.  If dtime = 0, then constdiv is
        ignored.
    
    (copyall = "no") [boolean]
        If true, all the other extensions of the file  are  copied  into
        the  output  file.   If false, the task still copies the primary
        header, but no other extensions.
    
    
EXAMPLES
    1.    Expand the HK FITS file hk0.fits into a file named exhk.fits
          where the parameter names are in the column  Name, their values
          are in the column Value, and the time are in the column Time:
    
          ft> hkexpand hk.fits exhk.fits
    
    
BUGS
    The input HK parameter values must be numeric scalars  or  character
    fields,  not arrays, or complex numbers.  The only available formats
    for output parameter  columns  are  byte,  integer(short  or  long),
    real(single   precision   or   double   precision),   or   string(30  
    characters).  However, the string column   can not be  converted  to
    scalar  column  or  vice  versa.   The  extension type of the output
    table will be the same as that of the input table.
    
    
SEE ALSO
    hkunexpand
