FBOXCAR (Jan91)               ftools.fimage              FBOXCAR (Jan91)



NAME
    fboxcar -- Convolve a FITS image with a rectangular boxcar filter
    
    
USAGE
    fboxcar input output xwindow ywindow
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [file name]
        Input FITS file and extension number to be  convolved  with  the
        rectangular  boxcar filter.
    
    outfile [file name]
        Output FITS file where the convolved image will be written.
    
    xwindow [integer]
        The  size  of the smoothing window in pixels in the x direction.
        If not an odd number it  will  be  incremented  to  nearest  odd
        number.
    
    ywindow [integer]
        The  size  of the smoothing window in pixels in the y direction.
        If not an odd number it  will  be  incremented  to  nearest  odd
        number.
    
    (boundary = "nearest") [double]
        The  algorithm  used  to compute the values of the out of bounds
        pixels. The options are:
        
        nearest
            Use the value of the nearest boundary pixel.
        
        constant
            Use a constant value.
        
        reflect
            Generate a value by reflecting around the boundary.
        
        wrap
            Generate a value by wrapping around to the opposite side  of
            the image.
    
    (constant = 0.0) [double]
        The constant for constant-valued boundary extension.
    
    (datatype = "-") [character]
        The  data  type  for  the resulting smoothed image. A "-" or " "
        results in storing the smoothed image with the  same  data  type
        as  the original input image. The letter B or b represents byte,
        the letter I or i represents short integer, the letter  J  or  j
        represents   integer,  the  letter  E  or  e  represents  single 
        precision  reals  and  the  letter  D  or  d  represents  double 
        precision reals.
    
    (nullval = 0.0) [double]
        Value to substitute for any undefined pixels within the image.
    
    (copyprime=yes) [boolean]
        If  true,  all of the primary header keywords, the primary array
        (if any) and all of the extension keywords of  the  first  input
        file  are  copied  to  the  output file.  If false, only minimal
        headers are created.
    
    (copyall=no) [boolean]
        If true, all other extensions, including the primary  array  are
        copied to the output file.
    
    (clobber = no) [boolean]
        If  true,  an  existing  output  file  of  the same name will be
        overwritten.
    
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    
    FBOXCAR convolves the FITS image in input with a rectangular  boxcar
    kernel  specified  by  xwindow,  ywindow  and  places  the convolved
    images in output FITS file. Out of bounds pixels are computed  using
    the  algorithm  specified by boundary. The FITS image to be smoothed
    can be in either the primary array or in  an  image  extension.  The
    resulting  smoothed  image will be placed in either the output files
    primary array or in an image extension depending  on  three  things;
    the  location  of  the  image  in  the  input file, the value of the
    copyprime flag and the value of the copyall flag.
    
    If the input image is in the primary array then the resulting  image
    will  always  be  placed  in the primary array. In this case, if the
    copyprime flag is yes then all the keywords from the  input  primary
    header  will  be copied to the output primary header, otherwise only
    the required keywords will be placed in the output  primary  header.
    Setting  the  copyall flag will cause all the FITS extensions in the
    input FITS file to be copied over to the output FITS file.
    
    If the input image is in an image extension the the resulting  image
    will  be  placed  in  one of three places depending on the values of
    the copyprime and copyall flags. If the copyprime  flag  is  no  the
    the  resulting  smoothed  image  will  always  appear in the primary
    array. If the copyall flag is also set then all  extension  will  be
    copied  to  the output FITS file and the input primary array will be
    stored in the image extension that the image was  originally  stored
    in  the  input  FITS  file.  If  the copyprime flag is yes  then the
    primary array of the input FITS file will always be copied  over  to
    the  primary  array  of  the  output FITS file. In this case, if the
    copyall flag is no then the smoothed image will  be  stored  in  the
    first  extension  of  the  output  FITS file, otherwise the smoothed
    image will appear in the  same  extension  in  both  the  input  and
    output  FITS  file  and  all  other extensions will be copied to the
    output FITS file.
    
    
    
EXAMPLES
    
    1. Convolve an image with a square  3  by  3  boxcar  using  nearest
    neighbor boundary extension.
    
        cl> fboxcar image.fits gimage.fits 3 3
    
    2.  Convolve  an  image  with a rectangular 3 by 5 boxcar using wrap
    around boundary extension.
    
        cl> fboxcar img.fits gimg.fits 3 5 bound=wrap
    
    3. Convolve an image in the 3rd extension with a rectangular 7 by  5
    boxcar  using  nearest  neighbor  boundary  extension  and store the
    resulting image in the primary array.
    
        cl> fboxcar imgx.fits[3] gimg.fits 7 5 copyprime=no
    
    
    
BUGS
    
    
SEE ALSO
    fgauss
