CASTPART (Jun96)              ftools.rosat              CASTPART (Jun96)



NAME
    castpart -- Cast model particle background counts in sky coordinates
    
    
USAGE
    castpart test 5 yes
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    Cast  model  particle  background counts in sky coordinates with the
    same pixel size as the vignetting-corrected exposure maps and  event
    images.  Individual  maps  are  cast  of  the  total counts from the
    internally produced component, two externally  produced  components,
    and  the afterpulse component (if the input value is non-zero).  The
    counts are separated into the various bands by another task.
    
    Note that the total number of particle background counts (an  output
    of  this  program)  is  needed  for  the program FIT_AP and that the
    result of FIT_AP is needed  as  an  input  to  this  program.   This
    circular  relationship  is resolved simply by running CASTPART first
    with zero for  the  afterpulse  input  and  setting  the  'CONTINUE'
    parameter  to  'NO'.   Then  the   program  will  terminate after it
    produces the value for  the  total  number  of  particle  background
    counts.   FIT_AP  can  then  be  run  to  determine  the  number  of 
    afterpulse events, which can then be fed back to CASTPART.   Setting
    the 'CONTINUE' parameter to 'YES' would produce the output files.
    
    The  input files required by the routine  castpart are test_ANC.FITS
    (assuming  the   observation   control   prefix   is   'test')   and 
    valid_times.dat.   The  file  valid_times.dat is an ascii file; each
    line in the file consists of a  counter (an  integer),  begin  time,
    and  end  time,  where  the  times  are given in terms of spacecraft
    clock time.  This must be the same time selection as used  with  the
    programs  CASTDATA,  CASTEXP,  CASTPART,  and  LTE.  Also, an output
    file named test_diag.out needs to be created in the current  working
    directory  for  the  program to print the diagnostic messages.  This
    diagnostic information file is also  produced initially by  CASTDATA
    and will have additional data appended to it.
    
    The  image output of castpart consists of fits files of the particle
    background   counts   from   the   internally   produced   component  
    (partin.fits),  two  externally  produced  components (partex1.fits,
    partex2.fits), and afterpulse  component  if  the  input  number  of
    afterpulse events was non-zero (partap.fits).
    
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    (obs = "OBS") [string]
        Observation  control  (prefix for the filenames xxx_ANC.FITS and
        xxx_diag.out)
    
    (ap = "AP") [real]
        The number of AP counts.
    
    (continue = "CONTINUE") [string]
        The CONTINUE parameter enables  user to exit the program in  the
        first  run  before  the  calculations are done. A subsequent run
        with the parameter set to 'yes' would produce the output files.
    
    
EXAMPLES
    
    1.  Cast model particle background  counts  for  test_ANC.FITS  data
    file    for 5 AP counts.
    
            ft> castpart test 5 yes 
    
    
    
BUGS
    The  "OBS"  parameter  must  be  limited  to 8 characters.  Versions
    prior to FTOOLS 4.3 required that the input files be  in  uppercase;
    this requirement was removed in FTOOLS 4.3
