CALDB (Aug94)                    ftools                    CALDB (Aug94)



NAME
    Caldb -- The Calibration Database
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    The  Calibration  Database  is  a flexible, system-independent, file
    system which stores and indexes FITS format calibration files.   The
    Calibration  Database  access software allows users to automatically
    retrieve, display, and read the correct  calibration  file  for  any
    mission and instrument based on the user's input criteria.
    
    Additional  information  about  the  Caldb  can  be  gotten from the
    document,  "The  Caldb  User's  Guide"  available  from  your  Caldb 
    administrator.
    
    
SETTING UP YOUR ACCOUNT
    
    1)  make  sure  that  you  are  able to see the Calibration Database
    filesystem from  your  account.   If  you  do  not  know  where  the
    Calibration  Database  directories  are  located, contact your Caldb
    administrator.
    
    2) Set up the Caldb environment variables or logicals  by  following
    the appropriate set of directions below.
    
    
               ----------     UNIX / ULTRIX       ----------
    
         Add the following line to your .login file:
         
                           source <path>/caldbinit.unix
         
         where  path  is  the directory in which the caldbinit.unix file
         is  kept.   Generally,  this  path  is   /caldb/software/tools, 
         however  it  may be different for your site.  If you are unable
         to  locate  the  caldbinit.unix  file,   contact   your   Caldb 
         administrator.
         
         After  this line has been added to your .login file, logout and
         then login again.
    
    
               ----------          VMS            ----------
    
         Add the following line to your login.com file:
         
                              $ @<path>CALDBINIT.VMS
         
         where path is the directory in which the CALDBINIT.VMS file  is
         kept.   Generally, this path is CALDB:[SOFTWARE.TOOLS], however
         it may be different for  your  site.   If  you  are  unable  to
         locate    the    CALDBINIT.VMS   file,   contact   your   Caldb  
         administrator.
         
         After this line has been added to your login.com  file,  logout
         and then login again.
    
    
SEE ALSO
    caltools, quzcif, udcif, crcif
