FDELROW (Mar97)               ftools.futils              FDELROW (Mar97)



NAME
    fdelrow -- Delete specified rows in a FITS table
    
    
USAGE
    fdelrow infile[ext#] firstrow nrows confirm proceed
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    This  task deletes rows in a  FITS table.  Since the input FITS file
    is modified by this utility, the user is  given  an  opportunity  to
    confirm before deleting the rows.
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [file name]
        The   file  name  and  the  number  or  name  of  the  extension 
        containing the specified rows to  be  deleted.    The  extension
        number or name  has to be specified explicitly.
    
    firstrow [integer]
        The start row of the block of rows to be deleted.
    
    confirm = yes [boolean]
        If  set to YES, the following information (keyword values) about
        the extension containing the specified  rows  will  be  printed;
        EXTENSION, EXTNAME
        
        At  this  point the user may  proceed or quit  without modifying
        the input FITS file.
        
        On the other hand if  the  'CONFIRM'  hidden  parameter  in  the
        parameter  file  is  set to NO, then the specified rows  will be
        deleted without query.
    
    proceed = yes [boolean]
        If the 'CONFIRM' parameter is  set  to  YES,  then  the  program
        prints  out  the  keyword values  and query the user (PROCEED? )
        whether  (s)he  would  like  to  continue.  If   the   'PROCEED' 
        parameter   is  set  to  NO,  then  the  program  exits  without 
        modifying the input file.
        
        
EXAMPLES
    1.  Delete the rows  1-20  in  the  second  extension  of  the  file
    test.fits,     without querying for confirmation.
    
            ft> fdelrow test.fits+2 1 20 Y Y
    
    
    
BUGS
      For  the  safety,  the  user  has to specify the extension name or
    number   explicitly in input file name. If the user  does  not  give
    an  extension    number  or name, the program will generate an error
    message and   quit.
    
    
    
    
SEE ALSO
    ftdelrow.  fv, the interactive FITS file editor, can  also  be  used
    to delete rows from a FITS table.
