XRSQLP (2005 February)        suzaku.xrsqlp        XRSQLP (2005 February)



NAME
    xrsqlp -- Quick Look Plot tool of ASTRO-E2 XRS event file and
              "xrssim" output file.
             
    
USAGE
    
    xrsqlp xrs_eventfile 
    
    
DESCRIPTION

    xrsqlp makes a Quick Look plots of XRS event file, either real
    data or "xrssim" output simulated data.

PARAMETERS
    
    infile (string)
        xrssim output event file.
    
    gdevice (string)
        pgplot graphic device. Often used are "/xs" for xwindow,
        "/cps" for color postscript file, and "/gif" for GIF
        image. 

    page (Boolean)
        Output in a single page (yes) or not (no).
        For xrssim output event file, four figures are made,
	which may be output separately (page=no) or on a single page
        (page=yes).

    ImageBinning (integer)
        Sky image binning factor. XRS has 30 active pixels, each
        of which is 0.624mm x 0.624 mm, or  0.477 arcmin x 0.477 arcmin.
	Both for XRS and XIS, we define DET, FOC and SKY coordinates whose
	pixel size is 0.02274mm x 0.02274mm (same as XIS pixel), or
	0.01734 arcmin x 0.01734 arcmin.  FOC and SKY image size is
	1536 x 1536, whereas that of DET is 256x256.

	For each XRS event, xrsqlp projects the pixel shape on the sky,
	and all the inside sky pixels in the XRS pixel are filled with
	value unity/(number of sky pixels per XRS pixel).  This is a time
	consuming process.  ImageBinning specifies the sky image binning,
	with which it is faster to make XRS sky image (but XRS pixel boundary
	will become less smooth).
    
    SmoothWidth (integer)
        In the case of xrssim output, input photon positions on the
	focal plane are recorded in the event file, from which contour map 
	of the photon distribution is written.  Smoothwidth determines the
	smoothing of the photon distribution on the sky coordinate, after
	rebinned with ImageBinning.
	In the detector coordinate, image is not rebinned, and smoothing
	length is ImageBinning*SmoothWidth.
	
    logscale (Boolean)
        Either contour is drawn with log scale (yes) or not (no).

    Ncont (integer)
        Number of contours.

    outfits (Boolean)
        xrsqlp is able to make an output FITS file for the XRS sky image (XRS
	pixels are filled). Specify to create the XRS sky image file or not.

    outputFITS (string)
        Name of the output FITS image.

    teldef_file (string)
        XRS teldef file name, such as xrs_teldef_2003-02-15.fits.

    clobber (Boolean)
        Clobber output FITS file or not.

EXAMPLES
    
    xrsqlp infile=crab.events gdevice="/cps" page=yes Imagebinning=2\
    SmoothWidth=2 logscale=no ncont=16 outfits=yes outputFITS=xrsqlp.fits \
    teldef_file=xrs_teldef_2003-02-15.fits clobber=yes

    Makes Quick Look plots from the "crab.events" file, and the
    four figures are output on a single page as a postscript file
    ("pgplot.ps" is made).  Skyimage is rebinned by two, contour is
    smoothed by 2 bin (after the rebinning), in logarithmic scale,
    and 16 contour levels are made.  Output XRS sky image FITS file
    is xrsqlp.fits.
     
BUGS
    
    Not reported.        
        

SEE ALSO

AUTHOR

    Ken Ebisawa (ebisawa@subaru.gsfc.nasa.gov) at ASTRO-E2 GOF.

