BCT (Dec94)                   ftools.rosat                   BCT (Dec94)



NAME
    BCT - corrects the times in the rosat orbit table at the barycenter.
    
    
USAGE
       bct input output ra dec
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    This  task computes the barycenter correction on the times contained
    in the orbit file. The times in the orbit file are sampled every  60
    seconds.  This task takes as input:
    
        1.  orbit  file.  The program accepts the three different format
        for the orbit file produced by the  ROSAT  processing.  The  new
        RDF  format  file  where  the  orbit  data  are stored within an
        extension called EXTNAME=EPHEM. The old  style  US  format  file
        where  the orbit data are splitted in several extension within a
        file called EXTNAME=SPORB. The old German style format where the
        orbit  data  are stored within one extension. No EXTNAME keyword
        is used in the table in this last case.
    
        2.  output  correction  table  in  FITS.   This   contains   the 
        uncorrected  and  the corrected orbit time. The output FITS file
        consists in 4 columns, containing respectively the  integer  and
        the  fractional part of the uncorrected and corrected times. The
        times are written as JD. The output file is used by ABC.
    
        3. the equatorial coordinates of the source given either  as  hh
        mm  ss.s,  dd mm ss.s (separated by a blank space) or in degrees
        (epoch 2000.0).
    
    This program makes use of the JPL DE200 ephemeris as a  FITS  binary
    table (Standish, M., 1982 Astr. Ap., 114, 297).
    
    
NOTES
    Bct needs to be run before abc.
    The leap seconds are accounted through 1-Jan-1999.
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [filename]
        The name of the file containing the orbit data.
    
    outfile [filename]
        The  name  of  the  output  file  containing  the  corrected and
        uncorrected orbit times.
    
    ra  [string]
        The r.a. of the source  given  either  in  hh  mm  ss.s  or  deg
        (equinox 2000).
    
    dec [string]
        The  dec.  of  the  source  given  either  in  dd mm ss.s or deg
        (equinox 2000.0).
    
    (tchat = 10) [integer]
        Terminal chattiness level.
    
    (lchat = 0) [integer]
        Log file chattiness level.  Enable logging by  setting  FLOGFILE
        environment  variable  to  filename.  Prefix a + to append to an
        existing file.
    
    (ephfile = de200_new.fits) [filename]
        The name of the JPL 2000 ephemeris FITS file
    
    
EXAMPLES
    
    
BUGS
    
    
SEE ALSO
     rosbary abc
