CMADEAD (sep98)              ftools.cmadead              CMADEAD (sep98)



NAME
    cmadead -- corrects EXOSAT CMA lightcurves and images for deadtime
    
    
USAGE
    cmadead infile evtfile outfile
    
    
DESCRIPTION
       This  task calculates the deadtime for data taken with the EXOSAT
    CMA    detector and applies the correction to the input file,  which
    is  either     a  lightcurve  or  an  image  file.  Several  effects 
    contribute  to  the  total     deadtime  correction  for   the   CMA 
    instrument.  The most important is    a telemetry limitation imposed
    by the requirements of the other onboard    instruments and  by  the
    background  variability  of the CMA itself. As a    consequence, not
    all the events collected by the telescopes  in     conjunction  with
    the  CMA  detectors  were  transmitted on ground. This    correction
    varies  enormously  and  depends  on  the  observation   length.   A 
       second  source  of  deadtime is due to the electronic but this is
    typically    quite  small  compared  to  the  'telemetry  deadtime'.
    'cmadead'  accounts  for    both. To correct for the telemetry loss,
    'cmadead' uses the OBC_PACKET    extension in the event file,  where
    the  number  of  samples and the arrival    time of each data packet
    are recorded.  Therefore  the  original  event     file(s)  used  to
    extract  the  image  or the source lightcurve are necessary    input
    file(s) to calculate the correction.  The  deadtime  calculation  is
       based  on  routines  (EXP3  for  the  lightcurve and EXPP for the
    image) from    the EXOSAT  Interactive  Analysis  software  package.
       For  a  lightcurve,  'cmadead'  calculates  the deadtime for each
    bin, applies    the correction to the RATE and  ERROR  columns,  and
    overwrites  the  FRACEXP     column.The average deadtime correction,
    due to  telemetry  losses  and     electronic,  is  written  in  the
    keyword  DEADC.  DEADAPP is set to true    after correction has been
    applied. The output  lightcurve  will  contain  only     bins  where
    fractional  exposure  is  above  a  minimum  threshold.  The default
       threshold is set to 0.3 therefore only bins  with  at  least  30%
    exposure  after    deadtime correction are output. The threshold can
    be changed using the    parameter minexpo.      For  an  image  file
    'cmadead'  calculates  an  average  deadtime  for the entire    time
    interval. The correction is applied  to  the  EXPOSURE  keyword.  In
       addition  DEADAPP  is set to true and the average value is stored
    in DEADC.
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile (input lightcurve or image file) [string]
        Name of the file to correct for the  deadtime.  The  input  file
        can  be  either  a  lightcurve  or an image file. Only one input
        file is accepted for each run.
    
    evtfile (input event file) [string]
        Input event file or list of event files. If the first  character
        of  the  input string is '@', the rest of the string is taken to
        be a filename containing the ASCII  file  list  of  the  events.
        The  OBC_PACKET  extension  in  these file are used to calculate
        the deadtime.  IMPORTANT: The event file(s) should be  the  same
        used to extract the input lightcurve or the image.
    
    outfile [string]
        The  name  of  the  FITS  output either a lightcurve or an image
        file.  The DATASUM and CKECKSUM are updated.
    
    minexpo (minimum exposure fraction) [real]
        Set the threshold for the  minimum  exposure  fraction  for  the
        lightcurve  bin.   Only  bins  with a fractional exposure higher
        than minexpo are written in the output file. Not applicable  for
        image file input. The input value ranges between 0 and 1.
    
    tchat (terminal chattiness) [integer]
        Set terminal chattiness.
    
    lchat (log file chattiness) [integer]
        Set  log  file  and chattiness in the log file: = 0 the log file
        is not written.
        
        clobber (overwrite output file if it exists?) [yes/no]
            Allows or prevents output file from being overwritten.
        
        
EXAMPLES
     1- Correct the lightcurve samp.lc based on the information contained in the 
     event files listed in the ASCII file evtlist. 
     The output corrected lightcurve is samp_cor.lc.
    
       > cmadead infile=samp.lc evtfile=@evtlist outfile=samp_cor.lc 
    
     2- Correct the image file image.img based on the information contained 
     in the event files listed in the ASCII file evtlist. 
     The output image is image_cor.img.
    
       > cmadead infile=image.img evtfile=@evtlist outfile=image_img.lc 
    
    
SEE ALSO
    exopha, exovig
