HEXTEBACKEST (Oct06)          ftools.xte            HEXTEBACKEST (Oct06)



NAME
    hextebackest -- Estimate background for HEXTE Cluster A.


USAGE
    hextebackest infile outfile [corrfile=filename] [mkarcfil=yes]


DESCRIPTION
    On July 13th, 2006, HEXTE Cluster A was moved to on-source
    permanently. This was necessitated by numerous stoppages and the
    concern that it may fail permanently in an off-source position.
    The HEXTE team developed a method for accurately estimating the
    Cluster A background using the Cluster B background and a measured
    correlation between Cluster A and B counts on a PHA channel-by-channel
    basis. This correlation was determined using A09 data when both
    clusters were rocking. This task estimates the background for
    HEXTE Cluster A PHA files created from data taken from Cluster B
    and a parameter file that contains two correlation coefficients for
    each PHA channel. The Cluster B input background has to have the
    full 256-channel energy resolution (HEXTE science event mode data).
    Both 256-channel and 64-channel (archive mode) output background
    files for Cluster A can be created.

PARAMETERS

    infile [file name]
        The name of the HEXTE Cluster B PHA background FITS file from which the
        Cluster A background estimate will be generated.

    outfile [file name]
        The name of the output HEXTE Cluster A background PHA FITS file. The use
        of 'STDOUT’ for outfile is not allowed. If the first character
        of outfile is a ‘!’, then an existing file of the same name will
        be overwritten. Outfile has the same 256-channel energy resolution
        as infile.

    (corrfile = CALDB) [file name]
        The default for this file is in the CALDB. This FITS file contains
        a list of linear correlation parameters, two for each PHA channel.
        These correlation parameters have been derived from comparing Cluster
        A and Cluster B data taken during A09.

    (mkarcfil = no) [boolean]
        The default for this parameter is 'no'. If this parameter is set to 'yes'
        then a second output file is created. The file name is the concatenation
        of the character string 'arc_' and outfile. The result is the estimated
        Cluster A background PHA file for use with HEXTE archive histogram data
        (64 energy channels, the HEXTE equivalent of PCA Standard II data).


EXAMPLES
    1. Create a Cluster A background PHA file:
     
         > hextebackest input.pha output.pha

    2. Create a Cluster A background PHA file and an archive format version
       of the corrected file:

         > hextebackest input.pha output.pha mkarcfil=yes

    3. Create a Cluster A background PHA file and an archive format version
       of the corrected file using a non-default correlation file:

         > hextebackest in.pha out.pha corrfile=pf.fits mkarcfil=yes


NOTES:
    HEXTEBACKEST does not allow the use of‘STDOUT.

BUGS

SEE ALSO
