NOTES ON MAGNETIC FIELD CALCULATIONS in FTOOLS
2011-06-27
C. B. Markwardt & M. J. Tripicco

Several X-ray missions within FTOOLS have a need to perform time 
filtering based on regions of the orbit with high particle backgrounds. 
  In some cases, this is done with a magnetic field model, and in other 
cases with a simple look up table.  This note summarizes our findings of 
how various missions/programs do this calculation.

Note that the reference standard magnetic field model is the IGRF 
(International Geomagnetic Reference Field) model, which models the 
field as spherical harmonic coefficients.  The earth's magnetic field 
slowly changes and the IGRF group releases revised coefficients every 
five years.  "DGRF" files are considered the definitive product, whereas 
"IGRF" files are provisional.

ROSAT / CALLIB
The callib package has a fortran module named shellig.f, which appears 
to be derived from a version of the IGRF field model dating from the 
late 1980s.  The IGRF coefficients are hard-coded into the routine, for 
dates between 1945 and 1990.  The definition / layout of these 
coefficients is not documented, so it seems unlikely that this routine 
could be updated using newer coefficients.   This routine is used by the 
ROSAT task 'pcfilt'.

RXTE
Some old RXTE PCA background models use magnetic field estimates based 
on the "McIlwain L" value.  This is computed by the task XTEDERIVE in 
starksubs.f (filter file output column MCILWAIN_L). starksubs.f in turn 
appears to be derived from the callib/shellig.f module.  However, the 
module contains hard-coded IGRF coefficients only for the year 1995. 
The date of year=1996.0 is hard-coded into the program.

ASCA
The magnetic cut-off rigidity is computed using the atFunction attitude 
library, from Japan.  The atRigidity() function uses a simple table 
lookup of values with spline interpolation.  This process does not 
depend on altitude or time.  By default, the values are hard-coded into 
the function, but an ASCII table can be provided.  There is also an 
atRigidity2() function which uses a FITS table.  A rigidity table is 
hard-coded into $HEADAS/refdata/rigidity.data.

SAX
BeppoSAX code contains estimates of the magnetic field and cut-off
rigidity, as computed by the routine XYZMAG found in geomag.f.  This
routine appears to be derived from Compton GRO code, which in turn
derives from more recent IGRF standard code.  In a sense, this is the
most complete model because it uses the full IGRF coefficients, and
analyzes a full model of the geomagnetic field in order to derive its
quantities.  In prefilter, this code has been updated to IGRF version
12, which contains the 2010 definitive coefficients and 2015/2020
provisional coefficients.

PREFILTER (SWIFT)
The mission generic task PREFILTER computes several magnetic field 
related values.
   MCILWAIN_L - was calculated by a modified RXTE/starksubs.f file (from 
1996!), but has been changed to use SAX XYZMAG instead
   COR_ASCA - uses the same table used by ASCA's atRigidity() function
   COR_SAX - uses the same code as BeppoSAX XYZMAG function
