HKUNEXPAND (Feb98)           ftools.heasarc           HKUNEXPAND (Feb98)



NAME
    hkunexpand  -- Compress an expanded ASCA housekeeping (HK) parameter
    FITS table.
    
    
USAGE
    hkunexpand infile[ext#] outfile
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    This task generates a compressed ASCA HK table from an  uncompressed
    table.    The   compressed  table  just  contains  3  column  (time, 
    parameter name, and parameter value) which list  each  HK  parameter
    whenever  its value has changed. The input uncompressed HK table has
    an individual column for the value of  each  parameter.  Values  are
    only  written  to  the  compressed table when they have changed from
    their previous state.  The data type of the output value column  can
    be   either   scalar(integer   or   real)  or  character.   However, 
    combinations of the scalar columns and  string  columns  (character)
    are  not  allowed  in  the  output  file. The conversion from scalar
    columns  to  string columns or vice versa are also prohibited.
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [filename]
        The file name and extension number in  square  brackets  of  the
        input uncompressed HK table.
    
    outfile [filename]
        The  name  of  the compressed HK table to be created.  This FITS
        file will contain a null primary  array  followed  by  a  binary
        table extension containing the compressed HK parameters.
    
    (name = "name") [string]
        The  column  name  in  output  file  to contain the housekeeping
        parameter names.
    
    (value = "value") [string]
        The column name in  output  file  to  contain  the  housekeeping
        parameter values.
    
    (time = "time") [string]
        The  column  name  in  input  and  output  tables containing the
        housekeeping parameter time stamp.
    
    (tnull = " ") [string]
        The TNULL keyword value for undefined  table  values  in  output
        file.  A  blank indicates no TNULL keywords are to be generated.
        However, for string values (type "A"), the tnull is always  "  "
        regardless of what tnull string is given.
        
    
    (outtype = " ") [string]
        The  datatype  of output columns.  The outtype can be "B"(byte),
        "S"(2 byte  short),  "I"(4  byte  integer),  "F"  or  "E"(single
        precision  real),  "R"  or  "D"  (double precision real) and "A"
        (string with 30 characters). If none of the above is given,  for
        the   scalar input file, the outtype  will take  the highest one
        in the input columns according to   the  hierarchy  of   Byte  <
        short  integer  <  (integer,  single  precision  real)  < double
        precision. For the string input file, the outtype will  be  "A".
        (OBSOLETE: The default is integer, unless outtype = "R".)
    
    (copyall = yes) [boolean]
        If true, all other extensions are copied to the output file.
    
    
EXAMPLES
    1.    Create a compressed HK file called unxhk.fits from the uncompressed
          HK FITS file hk.fits:
    
          ft> hkunexpand hk.fits unxhk.fits
    
    
BUGS AND RESTRICTIONS
    All  columns  in  the input file must be either all numeric scalars,
    or all strings.  Combinations  of   the  numeric  scalar  parameters
    and  character  parameters  are  not  allowed. This program also can
    not  perform the conversion between the  scalar  column  and  string
    column.   The  array  and  complex  number  are  not supported.  The
    extension type (ASCII or binary) of the output  table  will  be  the
    same as that of the input table.
    
    
SEE ALSO
    hkexpand
