FBSSUM (Mar97)                 ftools.xte                 FBSSUM (Mar97)



NAME
    fbssum -- Allows averaging of fB files in energy and performs  phase
    analysis.
    
    
USAGE
    fbssum infile chanbins hratio startphase endphase threshold
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    This  tool  performs phase analysis in specified energy ranges.  The
    results are printed out on the terminal and can thus  be  redirected
    to an ASCII file:
    fbssum fBsub.pha > lightcurve.txt
    
    Energy  ranges  are specified by a list of channel bin numbers, each
    of which is the start of a new range; the preceding  energy  channel
    bin  is  used  as  the end of the previous range - hence, the ranges
    have to be contiguous.  The last channel bin number in the  list  is
    the  closing  channel  bin  for  the  last  range.   If  nothing  is 
    specified, all available energy  channel  bins  are  lumped  into  a
    single  energy  range.   If  only  one  number  is provided, this is
    assumed to be the start channel bin of the single  range  that  will
    contain all following channel bins.
    
    Beware!   The energy channel bins are to be specified as they appear
    in the input file, not the  instrument's  native  channels  numbers,
    and  starting  at 0 (zero).  For GoodXenon, the two are identical: 0
    through 255.  But for E_31us_64M_24_2s (for instance)  channel  bins
    0  through  63  will  cover  native channels 24 through 255 (in some
    complicated  binning  scheme);   chanbins="16"   would   throw   the 
    configuration's  channel  bins  16  through  63 into a single energy
    range.
    
    Fbssum will print the light curve for each of the channel ranges  in
    a  format  that  is  suitable  for plotting by most generic plotting
    packages.  In addition to  a  count  rate  column  for  each  energy
    range,  there  is  an  error  column  for each range, a log(hardness
    ratio) column for each pair of adjacent energy ranges (if more  than
    one  is  specified  and if hratio=yes), a column with the phase, one
    with the Modified Julian Day, and one  with  the  exposure  for  the
    phase bin.  Modified Julian Day is defined as:
    MJD = JD - 2400000.5
    
    At  the top of the output, fbssum prints the baseline level for each
    energy range and,  if  a  startphase  is  provided,  a  simple  peak
    analysis  for  the  phase range specified: the phase of the peak bin
    (Peak); the zeroeth, first, second, and third moments of  the  pulse
    in  the  phase range, taking into account all bins exceeding a count
    rate of (threshold) times the peak bin  (Mom0,  Mom1,  Mom2,  Mom3);
    and  the  peak  phase as determined by a simple parabolic fit to the
    peak phase bin and  its  two  neighbors  (Pk2p).   All  this  header
    information  is  formatted  in such a way that it does not interfere
    with the plotting of the light curves.
    
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [string]
        Input file name; this needs to be an fB file.
    
    chanbins [string]
        A list of start channels for energy ranges, plus the  final  end
        channel;  if  none  are given, the entire energy range is summed
        together; if only one number is given,  that  is  taken  as  the
        start  of  a  single range that is to end at the highest channel
        number; otherwise, ranges will be contiguous.
    
    (hratio = no) [boolean]
        Calculate hardness ratios? If yes, the log of the ratios of  the
        rates  in  adjacent  energy ranges (as specified by chanbins, if
        more than one) are tabulated.
    
    (startphase = -1.0) [double] 
        Start phase for peak analysis; if  not  provided  this  analysis
        will not be carried out.
    
    (endphase = 1.0) [double] 
        Stop phase for peak analysis; if not provided this analysis will
        not be carried out.
    
    (threshold = 0.25) [double] 
        Threshold in terms of fraction of the peak for peak analysis.
    
    (mode = ql) [string]
        FTOOLS internal -- users should not need to change.
    
    
EXAMPLES
    
    
NOTES:
    Output is to the terminal.
    
    See the help file for FASEBIN for details.
    
    
BUGS
    
    Please report problems to xtehelp@athena.gsfc.nasa.gov.
    
    
SEE ALSO
    FASEBIN FBADD FBFSUM FBSUB
