FVELALC (Feb96)               ftools.vela5b              FVELALC (Feb96)



NAME
    fvelalc  -  FTOOL  to  generate  a  light  curve  from  the  Vela 5B
    satellite raw data
    
    
USAGE
    fvelalc  sourcename  long_src  lat_src  searchrad  collim  spincheck 
    pointcheck          backopt  minflux maxflux maxerr beginyr beginday
    endyr endday         weight binopt timbin (imax)
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    
    This FTOOL generates a FITS light curve from the Vela 5B  raw  data,
    extracting  data  from  a  radius  specified  by the user around the
    source.  This tool assumes there are no other sources  in  the  Vela
    5B  detectors'  field  of  view  (roughly 6 degrees radius).  If the
    source  of  interest  is  in  a  potentially  confused  field,   the 
    appropriate set of FTOOLS are FVELMAP and FVELGALLC.
    
      For    further    information   regarding   this   task,   current  
    plans/schedule, comments or bug reports,  please  contact  Jesse  S.
    Allen (http://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/ftoolshelp).
    
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    sourcename [string]
        The  name of the source.  This will be passed as a keyword value
        to the FITS file; strings longer  than  16  characters  will  be
        trunctated in the FITS OBJECT keyword entry.
    
    long_src [real]
        The galactic longitude (LII) of the source.
    
    lat_src [real]
        The galactic latitude (BII) of the source.
    
    searchrad [real]
        The  search  radius  around  the  source  position from which to
        include data.  The recommended search  radius  is  5.0  degrees.
        At   5.0  degrees  from  the  source,  the  collimator  response 
        function becomes so small that very little  extra  data  can  be
        collected   at   a   greater  radius,  and  collimator  response 
        corrections will greatly magnify  the  variance  of  this  data.
        Larger  radii also increase the likiehood of including data from
        a nearby source.
    
    collim [boolean]
        Whether  or  not  to  apply  collimator  response   corrections. 
        Correcting the data is recommended.
    
    spincheck [boolean]
        Whether  or  not  to  reject data points which have been flagged
        for irregularities in the spin period of the Vela 5B satellite.
    
    pointcheck [boolean]
        Whether or not to reject data points  which  have  been  flagged
        for errors in the pointing of the Vela 5B satellite.
    
    backopt [integer]
        Which   model  of  the  Vela  5B  background  rates  to  use  in 
        correcting the data.  There are three options:
        
            0  Make no background corrections whatsoever
        
            1  Use the original linear background model
        
            2  Use the sinusoidal modeled background
        
        minflux [real]
            The minimum flux level to include in the  data.   NULL  data
            for  the  Vela  5B  mission  has been recorded as -100.0: we
            recommend setting the minimum acceptable value to -100.0  in
            include all data (NULL data will not be included).
        
        maxflux [real]
            The maximum flux level to include in the data.
        
        maxerr [real]
            The maximum background level to accept in the data.
        
        beginyr [integer]
            The  calendar  year in which to start collecting data.  Vela
            5B was launched in  1969  and  stopped  operating  in  1979;
            years  outside  this  range  will  not be accepted.  You may
            entry the year in full (e.g. 1969)  or  just  the  last  two
            trailing digits (e.g. 69).
        
        beginday [integer]
            The  day  of  the  start  year  in  which to begin accepting
            data.  The entry should be the number of days since  January
            0  (e.g.  day  32  = 1 February). Data from that day will be
            included.
        
        endyr [integer]
            The calendar year in which to stop  including  data  in  the
            light  curve.   The maximum acceptable value is 80 (or 1980;
            entering day 1 of 1980 for a stop date ensures that data  is
            included all the way to the end of the Vela 5B mission).
        
        endday [integer]
            The  day  of the stop year in which to cease accepting data.
            The entry should be the  number  of  days  since  January  0
            (e.g.  day  32  =  1  February).  Data from that day will be
            included.
        
        weight [boolean]
            Whether  or  not  to  weight  the  data  according  to   the 
            background levels when binning the data.
        
        binopt [integer]
            Which  binning  option  to use.  Data can be retained in its
            original 1-s time resolution with  no  binning  (option  0),
            binning  in  10 day intervals (option 1), binned so that all
            data from a source seperated by less than an hour is  binned
            together  (called  natural binning, option 2; This works out
            to be 56 hrs (half a Vela 5B orbit)), or binning  data  into
            user-specified size bins (option 3).
        
        timbin [integer]
            If  binning  option  3  was  chosen,  a  bin  size  must  be 
            specified.  The time width  of  the  bins  is  specified  in
            seconds.
        
        (imax) [integer]
            This  is  a  "hidden"  parameter;  The  user  must  edit the
            parameter file to set imax.  This is the maximum  number  of
            data  points that the program will read in at one time.  The
            default  value  of  500,000  is  sufficient  for  1-s   time 
            resolution  light curves covering the entire Vela 5B mission
            for virtually any source, so there should not been any  need
            to  increase  imax.   However,  for  computers  with smaller
            memory capacities, it may be necessary  to  reduce  imax  if
            insufficient  memory  can  be  allocated.  500,000  elements 
            requires ~10 Mb of memory.
        
        
        
BUGS
    Version 1.1 and prior may include data flagged for bad background by
    the  NOS  processing.   Some  corruption  of light curves by a small
    number of bad data points will result.
    
    Version 1.0 and prior may fail if given  very  small  (  <  50  time
    records)  light  curves due to problems with small sized dynamically
    allocated arrays.
    
    Potentially runs out of memory on smaller systems; see  comments  on
    the IMAX parameter.
    
    
    
LOG OF SIGNIFICANT CHANGES
    
    v1.2 (1996 Feb)
           Prior  versions  failed  to  correctly reject data flagged on
        the NOS side of the Vela 5B processing: this is  corrected  with
        v1.2.   Specifically,  when the NOS computer found problems with
        the data, it wrote the SIN and/or COS background term to be  +/-
        32.75,  the  linear term to 327.5, or the linear term to be less
        than 0.  All such data points are now rejected.
    
    v1.1 (1995 Dec)
           Minimum size for  dynamically  allocated  arrays  to  prevent
        known problem with the umdget routines.
    
    v1.0 (1995 Aug)
           First  release  version;  channel  0  error  in  Beta version
        removed.  Also writes HISTORY keyword entries.
    
    v0.9 (1995 Jan)
           Beta test version, uses IMAX for dynamic memory.
    
    
    
PRIMARY AUTHOR
    
    Jesse S. Allen
    Hughes STX
    HEASARC NASA/GFSC
    http://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/ftoolshelp
    (301) 286-8245
