PCRPSF (Feb95)                ftools.rosat                PCRPSF (Feb95)



NAME
    pcrpsf - calculates a theoretical radial PSF for the ROSAT PSPC
    
    
USAGE
    pcrpsf infile phafile detfil rmffile outfile bkgd  bkgd_rad  sumtcts
    pix_size        en_min en_max off_ang
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    
      pcrpsf   generates  a  theoretical  radial  (1-dimensional)  point 
    spread function dataset for the ROSAT PSPC, and writes  the  results
    to  an output FITS file (in OGIP-standard format for RPSFs). Details
    of the  o/p  file  formats  supported  can  be  found  in  the  OGIP
    Calibration  Memo  CAL/GEN/92-020  available  via the OGIP anonymous
    ftp   account   on   legacy.gsfc.nasa.gov   (in    Postscript)    as  
    caldb/docs/memos/cal_gen_92_020.ps.
    
      A  number  of  options  are available, controlled via user-defined
    parameters, with  the  intention  of  serving  the  needs  of  users
    interested  in  generating predicted profiles for direct comparision
    with  observational  datasets,  and  users  who  simply  require   a 
    theoretical  profile. In addition to being able to specify the inner
    &  outer  radii,  and  number  of  steps  used  to   calculate   the 
    theoretical RPSF, the following functionality is also available:
    
    Users may define an input FITS file (via the parameter infile) containing 
        an  observed  radial  profile dataset (in OGIP-standard format).
        If such  a  dataset  is  entered  then  a  number  of  variables
        required  for  the  construction of the theoretical RPSF dataset
        are (or can be) read  from  this  FITS  extension  to  enable  a
        direct  comparison between the observed and theoretical profiles
        (see below).
    
    The PSF of the ROSAT PSPC is a strong function of energy. Users may 
        therefore enter a PHA file (via the  parameter  phafile)  to  be
        used  to  weight  the  calculated  theoretical  profile with the
        number of counts observed in each PHA channel over the range of:
        
        channels defined by the observational dataset entered via the 
            infile parameter (if infile is entered), or
        
        energies specified by the parameters en_min & en_max (if no 
            observational dataset is specified, ie infile=NONE)
        If a PHA file is not entered, then a uniform weighting  will  be
        assumed  across  the  above range of channels/energies. If a PHA
        file is entered (using phafile) and/or an observational  dataset
        is  entered  (using infile), then the EBOUNDS extension (usually
        found within  an  RMF)  is  required  to  perform  the  detector
        channel  ->  incident  energy conversion and must be entered via
        the rmffile parameter.
        
        The PSF of the ROSAT PSPC is also a strong function of off-axis angle,
            hence the angle  is  required  in  order  to  calculate  the
            correct  theoretical  curve.  A  'nodding' of the spacecraft
            was  performed  for  most  (if  not  all)   'pointed'   PSPC 
            observations,  and  an  off-axis histogram stored within the
            'DETECTOR'  extension  of  PHA  files  conforming  to   OGIP 
            standards  for  the  PSPC. Such a histogram can be specified
            using  the  detfil  parameter  within  pcrpsf.  If  such   a 
            histogram  is  not available/required, an off-axis angle can
            be specified directly via the parameter off_ang.
        
        Users may specify the strength of the background (via the parameter
            bkgd; in units of counts per pixel)  which  will  be  scaled
            and   added   appropriately   to   the  theoretical  profile 
            generated. If an observational dataset has been entered  via
            the   parameter  infile,  then  the  specification  of  this 
            parameter  will  override  the  value  stored   within   the 
            dataset.   In  addition,  if  an  observational  dataset  is 
            entered  then  users  may  ask  for  a  bkgd  value  to   be 
            calculated.
        
        The  algorithm  currently  in use is valid over the energy range
        0.07-3.0 keV and  all  off-axis  angles,  and  was  supplied  by
        Gunther  Hasinger  of  MPE.  A  more detailed description can be
        found in OGIP Calibration  Memo  CAL/ROS/93-015  (Hasinger  etal
        1994 Legacy 4, in press).
        
        
        
WARNINGS ON USAGE
    
      Only  the OGIP-recognized formats for RPSF, PHA & RMF datasets are
    supported.  Details on these formats can be found in:
    
    RPSFs:  OGIP Calibration Memo CAL/GEN/92-020
    
    PHAs:   Arnaud etal 1992 (Legacy, 2, 65) and its appendix provided in 
        OGIP Memo OGIP/92-007a.
    
    RMFs:   George etal 1992 (Legacy, 2, 51) and its appendix provided in 
        OGIP Calibration Memo OGIP/92-002a.
    
    
    
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [character string]
         An  input  filename  (in  OGIP-standard  format)  containing  a 
        1-dimensional   radial  profile  of  a  source,  or 'NONE'. If a
        filename is to be entered,  then a  specific  extension  of  the
        input  file containing the observational  dataset to be operated
        on can be specified by including the integer  extension   number
        in  square  ("["extn#"]") brackets after the filename. If such a
         specification is  not  used,  then  the  entire  file  will  be
        searched  for   extensions likely to contain an RPSF dataset. In
        such cases, if the input  file is then found to consist of  more
        than  one  acceptable dataset, then the  task will warn the user
        and stop. If a single acceptable extension is   found,  then  by
        default  the  following  information  required  to generate  the
        theoretical profile will be read from it:
        
        the range of channels over which the theoretical curve is to be 
             generated
        
        the level of the background (can be overridden using the bkgd 
             parameter to this task)
        
        the pixel size of the original image used to construct the 
             observational dataset
        
        The total number of SOURCE counts required to lay under the predicted
             RPSF curve. This value is recalculated if  the  bkgd  value
            is changed.
         If  the  value  'NONE'  is  specified,  then  the  user will be
        prompted for a  range of energies  over  which  the  theoretical
        profile is to be calculated.
    
    phafile [character string]
         An  input  filename  containing  a PHA histogram to be used for
        weighting  the   theoretical  radial  profile,  or  'NONE'  (for 
        uniform  weighting). A specific  extension of a given input file
        containing the PHA dataset can be specified   by  including  the
        integer   extension  number  in  square  ("["extn#"]")  brackets 
         after the filename. If such a specification is not  used,  then
        the  entire   file  will  be  searched  for extensions likely to
        contain a PHA dataset. In  such cases,  if  the  input  file  is
        then  found  to  consist of more than one PHA  dataset, then the
        task will warn the user and stop.
    
    detfil [character string]
         An input file containing an off-axis histogram to be  used  for
        weighting  the   theoretical  radial profile, or 'NONE', or "%".
        The  default  value  is  "%"   indicating  that   the   off-axis 
        histogram  dataset  will  be  read from an  extension of the PHA
        file. Such a histogram can be written to the file  if   the  PHA
        dataset   is   converted  to  an  OGIP  format  using  the  task 
         ftools/caltools/stw2pha
    
    rmffile [character string]
         The input filename containing  EBOUNDS  extension  required  to
        perform  the   translation  between detector channel and nominal
        incident energy.
    
    outfile [character string]
         The name of the output file to be  created  (in  OGIP  standard
        format)   containing  an  extension  with  the  predicted radial
        profile model. If an  observational dataset is entered (via  the
        infile  parameter),  then  this   dataset  will be copied into a
        seperate extension of the output file.
    
    (chatter = 9) [integer(hidden)]
         The value  of  the  chatter  flag,  useful  for  reassurance  &
        diagostics   purposes.  The  default  value  is  chatter=9, with
        chatter <= 5 being very  quite and chatter >= 20 very verbose.
    
    bkgd [character string (real value parsed)]
         Background level, in counts per pixel (assumed  to  be  uniform
        over  the  extent of the profile),which will be scaled and added
        appropriately to the  theoretical profile  generated.  In  cases
        where  an  observational  dataset  has   been specified (via the
        infil  parameter),  the  bkgd   parameter   enables   users   to 
         'override'  the  background  level  stored  in  this  file;  by 
        entering a new  background value or by using the  special  value
        "CALC"  which  results  in a  background value being calculated.
        NOTE: If a new bkgd value is used then  the sum  of  the  counts
        used  to lay under the predicted RPSF is recalculated.   If this
        is not desired, then the special (default)  value  of  "%"  will
         result  in  the background from the observational dataset being
        used.   Obviously in cases where infill=NONE a  numerical  value
        of  bkgd must be  specified (but which can be 0.0). Also in such
        cases,the user must specify  the angular size of  a  pixel  (via
        the  pixsize  parameter), and the total  number of source counts
        (via the  sumtcts  parameter)  to  which  the  RPSF   is  to  be
        normalised.
    
    bkgd_rad [real]
         Only  prompted for if bkgd="CALC". This is the inner radius for
        background  calculation. NOTE: For Rosat PSPC  an  inner  radius
        less  than  2  arcmins   is  not  recommended  as the background
        estimate could be contaminated by  the PSF.
    
    sumtcts [real]
         The total number of SOURCE counts required  to  lay  under  the
        predicted  RPSF   curve  (when  this  curve is integrated out to
        infinite  radius,  and  over  all    azimuthal   angles).   This 
        parameter  is  only  required  when no observational  dataset is
        entered (ie when infile=NONE).  NOTE  :  This  value  should  be
         corrected for any excluded regions.
    
    pix_size [real]
         The  angular  size  of  the  side  of  each  square  pixel  (in 
        arcmins).This  parameter is only required when  infile=NONE  and
        the value of the  background parameter is not equal to zero.
    
    (rad_min) [integer(hidden)]
         Inner  radius  for  the predicted model RPSF dataset in arcmin.
        The default  value is 0.0 and appropriate for most applications.
    
    (rad_max) [integer(hidden)]
         Outer radius for the predicted model RPSF  dataset  in  arcmin.
        The   default    value   is   10.0   and  appropriate  for  most 
        applications.
    
    n_rad [integer(hidden)]
         The number of radial bins to be used  in  generating  the  RPSF
        dataset.  The  default value is 300. For most applications it is
        suggested that this be  a large number (at least 100)  in  order
        to  obtain  sufficient  resolution  to see  the structure of the
        theoretical RPSF of the PSPC. The number of bins does  NOT  have
        to  be  the  same  as  the  number  of bins in any observational
        dataset  entered via infile.
    
    en_min [real]
         The lower bound on the energy range (in  keV)  over  which  the
        predicted  PRSF   dataset  is to be generated. This parameter is
        only required (and prompted  for) if  an  observational  dataset
        has  NOT  been  entered  via  the infile  parameter. The current
        parameterization of the PSPC profile is  only  valid   over  the
        range  0.07-3.0  keV,  thus  all requested energies outside this
         range will be ignored.
    
    en_max [real]
         The upper bound on the energy range (in  keV)  over  which  the
        predicted  PRSF   dataset  is to be generated. This parameter is
        only required (and prompted  for) if  an  observational  dataset
        has  NOT  been  entered  via  the infile  parameter. The current
        parameterization of the PSPC profile is  only  valid   over  the
        range  0.07-3.0  keV,  thus  all requested energies outside this
         range will be ignored.
    
    off_ang [real]
         The off-axis angle (in arcmin) for  which  the  predicted  PRSF
        dataset  is  to  be   generated. This parameter is only required
        (and prompted for) if an off-axis  dataset has NOT been  entered
        via  the  detfil parameter. The current  parameterization of the
        PSPC profile is only valid out to 60 arcmins from   the  optical
        axis, thus angles outside this range will be ignored.
    
    (binsize_min = 1) [real]
         The binning size (in arcmin).
    
    (clobber = false) [boolean]
         Flag  specifying  whether  or  not a pre-existing file with the
        same name as that  requested as the output file from  this  task
        will be overwritten.
    
    
    
    
BUGS 
    None known
    
    
SEE ALSO
     The ftools/caltools task st2rpsf
     The ftools/caltools task rbnrpsf
     The ftools/caltools task rpsfqdp
     The ftools/caltools task calcrpsf
     The ftools/caltools task stw2pha
     OGIP Calibration Memo CAL/ROS/92-001  (Hasinger etal 1992 Legacy 2
    77)
     OGIP Calibration Memo CAL/ROS/92-001a (Hasinger etal 1993 Legacy 3
    46)
     OGIP Calibration Memo CAL/ROS/93-015  (Hasinger etal 1993 Legacy 4
    in press)
    
    
    
LOG OF SIGNIFICANT CHANGES
    
    
    v2.0.7 (1994 APRIL)
         Rename task from PSPCRPSF
    
    v1.0.5 (1994 JAN)
         Additional  functionality - The option of not entering an input
        dataset  and only generating the theoretical PSF is given.
    
    v1.0.0 (1993 JAN)
         Beta test version
    
    
    
PRIMARY AUTHOR
    
    Rehana Yusaf
    HEASARC
    NASA/GSFC
    http://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/ftoolshelp
    (301) 286-6115
    
