
hxtlcurv> using perl v. 5.008008

NAME
     hxtlcurv - a script that produces background-corrected HEXTE
     light curves.
 
USAGE
     hxtlcurv [-i "hexte science data file name"]
              [-k "hexte dead-time coefficients file name"]
              [-r "hexte 16-s hk file name (contains Rates)"]
              [-b "bin size in seconds"]
              [-g "good-time-interval file name"]
              [-t "timeint file name, produced by timetrans"]
              [-l "lower energy channel number for light curve"]
              [-u "upper energy channel number for light curve"]
              [-d "data column list (archive files only)"]
              [-e "detector list for dead time correction"]
              [-c "chatter level for hxtdead"]
              [-p "make pha files too"]
              [-v (version number written to standard output)]
              [-h (help text written to standard output)]
 
DESCRIPTION
     hxtlcurv  produces  a  background subtracted light curve and
     optionally an average spectrum from HEXTE science or archive
     data  using  the  off-source rocking measurements.  Standard 
     interval selection options are supported. In addition to the 
     data file, required inputs include the contemporaneous HEXTE
     rates file and deadtime  coefficients  files.  The  hxtlcurv  
     script  queries  the user for each of these as needed. If no
     timeint file is given, the TSTART and TSTOP  keyword  values
     from  the science file are used.  The script then checks for
     source and background files having the same name as the sci-
     ence  file  with  the addition of "_src" or "_bkg" suffixes,
     respectively.  If these are not found,  hxtback  is  run  to
     produce  them.   Then  either saextrct or seextrct is run to
     produce  the light curve files,  which are passed to hxtdead
     for deadtime correction.  Finally, a background light  curve
     is interpolated and passed to lcmath for background subtrac-
     tion from the source-looking light curve.
 
PARAMETERS (SWITCHES/FLAGS)
     -i infile
        The name of the input HEXTE science FITS file that is  to
        be operated upon.  Output files will also start with this
        name.
 
     -k hexte 128-s housekeeping file name
        The name of the 128-s housekeeping file  associated  with
        the science data.  This file is needed by hxtdead.
 
     -r hexte 16-s hk file name
        The name of the 16-s housekeeping  file  associated  with
        the science data.  This file contains rates and is needed
        by hxtdead.

     -b time bin size for output light curve.  Must be 16 seconds 
        or less. Default is 16 seconds.

     -d (archive data) column names. Must be either TimSerCnt  or
        some combination of SpecDet0 SpecDet1 Specdet2  Specdet3.
        Default is all 4 spectral columns.
     
     -e detectors subset for which dead-time correction is done
        by hxtdead.  Default is 0123 (all of them).

     -t timeint file name
        Name of file containing start and stop times, produced by
        timetrans.
 
     -l lower energy channel
        The low energy channel number for the light curve.
 
     -u upper energy channel
        The upper energy channel number for the light curve.
 
     -c chatter level
        The chatter level for hxtdead.
 
     -p pha files will also be accumulated and deadtime corrected

     -v hxtlcurv version information will be written to  standard
        output.
 
     -h This help text will be written to standard output.
 
EXAMPLES
     1. hxtlcurv -h
         Help text will be displayed.  
 
     2. hxtlcurv
         User will be prompted for filenames.  Default time  bins
         of 16 sec.
 
     3. hxtlcurv  -i FS50_3f3ad0b-3f3b040 -r FH53_3f3ad0b-3f3b040
         -k caldb -b 4.0 -g good.gti
         Script will run without prompting,  using  FS50_3f3ad0b-
         3f3b040  as  science input file, FH53_3f3ad0b-3f3b040 as
         rates file, and the deadtime coefficients file which has
         been installed in the calibration database.  Four second
         time bins. GTI file good.gti is ANDed with rocking GTIs.
 
     4. hxtlcurv  -i FS52_3f3ad0b-3f3b040 -r FH53_3f3ad0b-3f3b040
         -k caldb -b 4.0 
         Script will run without prompting,  using  FS52_3f3ad0b-
         3f3b040  as  archive input file, FH53_3f3ad0b-3f3b040 as
         rates file, and the deadtime coefficients file which has
         been  installed  in the calibration database.  Specified
         four second time bins will be changed to 16 sec  by  the
         extract tool. 

      5. hxtlcurv -i FS52_3f3ad0b-3f3b040 -r FH53_3f3ad0b-3f3b040
         -k caldb -b 2 -d TimSerCnt
         Runs as above, producing two second rate averages of the
         1-second archive multiscalar data.
 
CAUTIONS
     Limited by the rocking and the extract tools to time bins of 
     16 seconds or less, and 16 seconds only for archive spectral
     data.  Calculated errors assume incorrectly that  background 
     estimates are independent, not quite true. The RMS is under-
     estimated by 20 percent in the worst case of weak source and
     16-sec time bins.  Some point-to-point correlation up to  32 
     seconds is also present. Rocking data only. No list-of-files 
     option for input.

BUGS
     The script has not been made operational under VMS.  Channel
     selection with archive multiscalar data produces zero rates.
     This appears to be a bug in saextrct.  Use  event-list  data
     if you want a light curve with time bins shorter than 16 sec
     and a limited channel range.

     Please report problems to xtehelp@athena.gsfc.nasa.gov.
 
SEE ALSO
     hxtback, hxtdead, saextrct, seextrct, finterp and lcmath for
     more information.

