
NAME
    rex - Makes preliminary products and then extracts data;
          i.e. creates filter files, GTIs, lists of data files, 
	  background data files and lists, lc and pha files.  


USAGE

    rex    -d "Input path to proposal level data directory"
	   -c "Channel range to extract for light curves;  0-27 by default"
	   -l "Layers to extract:  1 (default), 2, 3, or all."
           -r "Root name for output"
	   -p "Printmode:  l for light curves, s for spectra; (default both)."
           -t "Target:  give two digit target number for extraction."
           -x "To reduce HEXTE Archive mode instead, give cluster(0 1,a b)"
	   -s "Flag to process slews instead;  default is to ignore slews."
           -f "Flag to turn off filter file generation"
	   -b "Flag to turn off background generation"
           -q "Flag to quell prompting for unspecified options."
           -n "Flag to use no saahfile (for bright source models)"
	  
	   -h "Print help"

DESCRIPTION

    Rex is a script designed to run through the basic data reduction steps for
    multiple observations of a given target.  It can run with minimum input, but 
    retains the flexibility to change the defaults for most basic options.  

    The user need only give the tool the path to the FITS database proposal
    level directory;  the default procedure is then to extract both light curves 
    and spectra from layer 1 using channels 0-27 (lc's only) and PCUs 0, 1, and 2.  
    The script will create a set of subdirectories in the aux directory, one for 
    for each observation's intermediate products (file lists, GTI files, 
    background data files, logs, etc.), and another set in the working directory 
    for the resulting lightcurves and/or spectra.  For each obsid, the script will:
    
	1)  run xtefilt using the appidlist in the aux 
            directory;  -f option over-rides this;   

        2)  run maketime to create a standard list of Good Time Intervals
            using expression found in aux/expression.txt;

        4)  run pcabackest to create modeled background data for PCA
            using models found in aux/model.files and aux/pca_saa_history;
            -b option over-rides;  for HEXTE data, runs hxtback to separate
            source from offset data;

        5)  create lists of both the data and background files;

        6)  run saextrct to produce individual light curves and/or spectra;

        7)  run hxtdead to correct HEXTE spectra/light curves for deadtime;

        8)  subtract background light curve from data, and write background
            spectrum into BACKFILE keyword of data spectrum;
            
    Additionally, the script will create merged products from all the
    observations in the given directory.

    This script can be run from the command line using all default options 
    (except the data directory) by specifying the -q flag to quell the prompting.
    If the -q flag is omitted, any option not specified on the command line 
    will be prompted for, with the default taken if no value is then given. 
     
    Rex must be run from a working directory that contains the 
    "aux" directory found on the RXTE ftp site at 
      ftp://legacy.gsfc.nasa.gov/xte/software/rex/aux.tar
    In this tar file are the miscellaneous files that will be used by the script, 
    namely the goodtime expression used in maketime, the column lists to be 
    extracted, and the background model files.  The text files can be edited, but
    the names of the text files must remain the same in order for the script 
    to find them.  

    While this script is designed for ease of use rather than flexibility, 
    the existence of several optional inputs and the ability to  
    edit the tools in the aux directory give the user some control.  To use 
    use different model files, edit the model.files text list to point
    to the new files;  to change the number of PCUs extracted, add to the column
    list files, etc. Time consuming steps which may have already been performed 
    such as xtefilt and pcabackest can be bypassed using the flags -f and -b 
    respectively.  Changes to the channel boundaries and layers can be 
    made using the -c and -l options, respectively.  To limit extraction 
    to only lightcurves or only spectra, us the -p option.  Changes to the 
    criteria for determining Good Time Intervals (GTIs) can be made by 
    editing the expression in aux/expression.txt.  By default, the 
    script will only extract data from PCUs 0, 1, and 2, as PCUs 3 and 
    4 usually go on and off in the course of a long series of 
    observations.  To add PCUs 3 and 4 to the extraction, the user can 
    edit the column files in the aux directory to add the additional 
    columns.  (The selection expression should then be modified to include
    a test to make sure these two PCUs are on.)

    In a script this long, the possibilities for errors are numerous.  Most should
    be trapped by the script, which will give a warning, write any error messages
    from the FTOOLS into a log in the aux directory, and either continue if possible
    or quit.  When a warning appears, check the log file for the error message from
    the FTOOL;  if this message does not enlighten, send the log file on to 
    xtehelp@athena.gsfc.nasa.gov along with the inputs you gave to Rex 
    originally and any information about what you may have changed in the 
    aux directory.
    


PARAMETERS (SWITCHES/FLAGS)

          -d [path]  - Input the path to the proposal level of your FITS 
                       database, e.g. /local/data/P30402. 

          -c [l-u]   - Give the desired channel range for the resulting light 
                       curves, e.g. 5-30.  If nothing is specified, 0-27 
                       will be extracted.

          -l [layer] - Specify the layer to be extracted:  1, 2, 3, or all 
                       are the possible entries.  Anything else will be 
                       ignored and the default used.  If nothing is 
                       specified, layer 1 only will be extracted.  

          -r [root]  - Root name for output.  Files will be named with this 
                       root, if specified, followed by layerN, chX-Y (lc's 
                       only), and bkg for background files.  

          -p [mode]  - Specify printmode, l for light curves only, s for 
                       spectra only.  Default is both.  

          -t [targ]  - Give two digit target number, e.g. "03".  Default 
                       is all found.

          -x [cl]    - To reduce HEXTE Archive mode data instead of PCA Standard2,
                       give the cluster you wish to analyze.  This option works
                       with all options except the layer option.

          -s         - Flag to include processing of slew data.  By default, 
                       the  script will ignore slew observations, i.e. those 
                       whose ObsIds end in A, Z, C, or D.

          -f         - Flag to skip filter file regeneration.  If the filter 
                       files have already been made and include all the 
                       necessary columns in aux/expression.txt and those 
                       needed by pcabackest (PCUn_ON, BKGD_THETA, BKGD_PHI), 
                       this time consuming step can  be avoided by specifying 
                       this flag.  The filter files must exist in the FITS 
                       database, in the stdprod directories for each obsid, 
                       and they must be refered to by the FIST index file.  
                       (If made by xtefilt with the -s option, all should be 
                       well.)

          -b         - Flag to bypass the making of the background files.  
                       Use this option only if the script has already been 
                       run successfully  and you simply want to re-extract 
                       light curves and spectra.  

          -n         - Flag to use no SAA history file in pcabackest;  this 
                       is only for use with other models than the Faint L7 
                       models.  It is only necessary when there is no current
                       SAA history for the data.  
  
          -q         - Flag to quell prompting for options not specified on the
                       command line.  Anything not specified will be set to the 
                       default.

EXAMPLES

    1)  rex

        Prompts for data, target, printmode, channel, layer, and root name.  

    2)  rex -d /local/data/P30402 -q

        Runs using all defaults.

    3)  rex -bfd /local/data/P30402 -p l -l 3 -c 30-50 -q

        Runs without generating new filter files, using existing background
        files, printing only light curves, and extracting only layer 3 and
        channels 30-50.  

SEE ALSO

        SAEXTRCT, PCABACKEST, XTEFILT, MAKETIME, LCMATH, HXTBACK, HXTDEAD, REBINLC, MATHPHA 

