Starting up SACHIP v.0.21


NAME 
    sachip v.0.21 -- a script to allow the user to create filtered
    spectra and light curves from XTE/SA data with either a single
    command-line entry, or a simplified Q/A session.

USAGE
    sachip -[bcdghilmopt]

DESCRIPTION 

    SACHIP is a Perl script which allows the user to create and plot
    spectra and light curves for a given list of XTE Science Array
    files, taking into account (optional) time and energy filter
    information. All necessary information can be supplied by the 
    user as switches on the command line, and the script can/will
    take sensible defaults in the absence of overriding user input. 
    Alternatively, the script can be run interactively, in which case
    the user will be prompted for important parameters not supplied
    as switches.


PARAMETERS  (actually SWITCHES/FLAGS) (grouped by function):

     -i {file} - provide name of ASCII file containing list of XTE/SA
            files (assumed default: 'fits_files.txt').
     -p {file} - provide root filename for product files - i.e., 
	    'sachip -p paris' will create files paris.lc, paris.pha.
            (assumed default: 'sachip_out').
     
     -b {number} - provide requested binning for light curve file - i.e.
            'sachip -b 1.0' will create 1-second bins.
            (assumed default: 32 seconds).

     -c "{channels}" - provide range of ORIGINAL (not binned) channel 
            filters to be used in the accumulation, e.g. "10-20,40-100".
     -t "{times}" - provide range of times to be used to filter the data
            (additional to those already present in the GTI extension) 
            when accumulating, e.g. "48798400.0-48798900.0".

     -m   - Resultant spectra/curves will contain separate columns for each
            of the good data columns in the input files.
     -o   - Resultant spectra/curves will contain the sum of all the
            good data columns (the default).

     -d   - Take default values for all parameters not set on the command
            line.
     -g   - Take all GOOD columns (this is not only the current default,
	    but your only option at the moment).
     -s   - Device to plot on (assumed default: '/xterm').
     -l   - Logfile switch. Currently, logging is the default (in a
            file sachip.log), and  -l will disable this logging.
     -h   - Print this help information.


EXAMPLES

     sachip -b 8.0 -m -p torres -d
            will create and plot one spectra and one light curve file, 
	    The output files will be called torres.lc and torres.pha,
	    and will contain one column per input good data column. The
            light curve will have 8-sec binning. Sensible defaults taken
            for all other values.

     sachip -i kim.txt -t "{times}" -c "{channels}" -b 1000.0 -og
            will look in file 'kim.txt' for the list of input files, apply
            time and channel filter ranges as applied, and
	    create and plot a 1000-sec binned light curve and a single 
	    spectrum, to be found in sachip_out.lc and sachip_out.pha.
            Values not provided will be prompted for (in this case,
            the root for the product file).
     sachip -d
            will take fits_files.txt and plot a spectrum and light curve
	    for all the data with 32-sec resolution and put the data
	    in sachip_out.lc and sachip_out.pha.
     sachip 
            will prompt the user for each parameter.

NOTES

    SACHIP is intended as a 'fast' tool to minimize the amount of
    FTOOLing around for the user with straightforward data analysis
    requirements. It is not intended to replace or reproduce the full
    functionality available from the individual FTOOLS. However, I'm
    open to suggestions about how to improve the script to meet
    commonly-occuring data analysis needs. Future versions will include
    calls to XTEFILT and MKTIME to apply simple data cleaning.

BUGS

    Please report problems to xtehelp@athena.gsfc.nasa.gov.

SEE ALSO

    SAEXTRCT and FPLOT for more information.

