FIMGMERGE (April,1997)        ftools.fimage       FIMGMERGE (April,1997)



NAME
    fimgmerge - Merges any  number  of  images  on  to  a  given  image,
    allowing an integer pixel offsets for each merged image.
    
    
USAGE
    fimgmerge infile @list outfile
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    FIMGMERGE  superimposes  a  no.  of images with user defined offsets
    (x- and y- directions) onto an input  image  file.   The  offset  of
    (0,0)  indicates that the image is to be merged onto the bottom left
    corner of the input file.  The dimension of output is  identical  to
    that  of  input  image  file on which images are merged.  The higher
    dimensioned images are chopped to fit the size of this  input  image
    file.
    
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [string]
        The  name  of  the  image file onto which other images are to be
        merged.
    
    list [string]
        Image files to  be  merged  onto  infile.   The  input  to  this
        parameter  can  either be a list of files, or can be the name of
        an ASCII file containing such a list of files  (one  per  line).
        In  the  latter  case,  the  name  of  the  ASCII file should be
        preceeded by a, '@', e.g.,   @listfile  instructs  the  task  to
        open  the  ascii file listfile, and read the image filenames and
        respective offsets from it.  Each  line  of  listfile  needs  to
        have  filename  followed  by xoffset and yoffset.  The separator
        should be comma.  The maximum limit of these image files is  set
        to 100.
    
    outfile [string]
        The  name  of output file.  It can be same as input file, but if
        preceeded by '!', input file is overwritten.
    
    xoffset [string]
        This is prompted for when image filenames are given  instead  of
        an  ascii file.  It is the offset for the to-be-merged imagefile
        in horizontal direction.   The  (0,0)  offset  is  at  the  left
        bottom of the input image file.
    
    yoffset [string]
        This  is  prompted for when image filenames are given instead of
        an ascii file.  It is the offset for the to-be-merged  imagefile
        in vertical direction.
    
    (clobber = no) [boolean])
        Flag  specifying whether or not a  pre-existing  file  with  the
        same  name  as that  requested as the output file from this task
        will be overwritten.
        
        
EXAMPLES 
    
    1.  To  merge  onto  file  infile  two  image files img1 with offset
    (100,50) and img2 with offset (0,0), the listfile would be
       img1,100,50
       img2,0,0
    
       Then,
    
       prompt> fimgmerge infile @listfile outfile
    
    2. To merge the files without ascii file
    
       prompt> fimgmerge
    
       Input image file on which to merge images: infile
    
       Input image files to be merged: img1,img2
    
       Output image file: outfile
    
       X pixel offsets for each image file: 100,0
    
       Y pixel offsets for each image file: 50,0
    
    
LIMITATIONS
    
    The number of ARF files cannot exceed 100.
    
    The filenames, and offsets needs to be separated by comma.
    
    
BUGS
    
    None Known
    
    
LOG OF SIGNIFICANT CHANGES
    
    V1.0 (1997 April)
    
    
PRIMARY AUTHOR
    
    Banashree M Seifert
    
    
CONTACT FOR PROBLEM
    
    http://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/ftoolshelp
    
