FFILECAT (Nov92)              ftools.futils             FFILECAT (Nov92)



NAME
    ffilecat  --  Finds the values of keywords  in  a  series  of  input
    files, and puts them into a binary fits table
    
    
USAGE
    ffilecat  infile outfile keywords
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    This  task  makes a catalog, in the form of a binary fits file, from
    the list of files given in the 'infile' parameter.  The name of  the
    catalog  file  is  'outfile'.    The  first  column  of  the catalog
    contains the filenames, the second, the extension numbers.  The rest
    of  the  columns  contain  the  values  of the keywords given in the
    parameter 'keywords', with the value from  each  file  appearing  in
    the  row  labeled  in  the  first  column  by  its filename.  If the
    outfile already exists, it will append the values to  this  existing
    table,  using  the column names for the keyword names if the keyword
    variable is blank.  If it is not, then the keywords are  taken  from
    this  variable,  and put into the columns in the order in which they
    appear in the  keywords  variable.   In  either  case,  the  keyword
    values  are  checked  to  make  sure  they have the same type as the
    column to which they are assigned  in  outfile.   If  the  parameter
    omit  is set to true, the whole input file row is omitted in case of
    type mismatches.   Otherwise, the value is  set  to  undefined.   If
    the  outfile  does not exist, then one is created.  The column types
    are set based on the types of the values in  the  input  files.   If
    all  the  values for a single keyword are not of the same type, then
    the column is set to a character type.  If one of the keywords  does
    not  exist  in one of the input files, then its value in the outfile
    is set to undefined, unless omit is set to true, in which  case  the
    line is omitted.
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [string]
        The  list  of  file  names from which to get the keyword values,
        separated by  spaces.   They  are  assumed  to  be  in  BINTABLE
        format.   If  the first character is '@', the rest of the string
        is taken to be a filename in which the input files  are  listed,
        one filename per line.
    
    outfile [filename]
        The  name of the output binary FITS table.  Data can be appended
        to any existing extension of an outfile, but ffilecat  will  not
        append a  new extension onto an existing file.
    
    keywords [string]
        List  of  keywords  to  search for, separated by spaces.  If the
        first character is '@', the rest of the string is taken to be  a
        filename  in  which the input files are listed, one filename per
        line.
    
    (maxlen = 20) [integer]
        This is the minimum length chosen for string columns,  when  the
        outfile  doesn't  already  exist.   If any of the values for the
        keyword are longer than maxlen, the column is defined to be  the
        longest of them.
    
    (minlen = 0) [integer]
        If  minlen is non-zero, then all character strings are truncated
        at minlen characters.  This overrides maxlen.
    
    (aform = "NONE") [string]
        Controls the formatting of all character variables by writing  a
        TDISP  keyword,  whose  value is the aform string.  Aform = NONE
        means write no TDISP keyword.
    
    (eform = "NONE") [string]
        Same as aform, but for all E columns.
    
    (iform = "NONE") [string]
        Same as aform, but for all I and J columns.
    
    (omit=no) [logical]
        If true,  then  any  infile  which  does  not  contain  all  the
        keywords,   or  which  contains  some  invalid  data  types,  is 
        omitted.  If it is set to false, then these values  are  set  to
        undefined.
    
    (quiet=no) [logical]
        If  true,  then the error messages for most non-fatal errors are
        suppressed.
    
    
    
EXAMPLES
    1.      Put the values of the keywords "NAXIS" and "NAXIS2" from the files
            "one.fits", and "two.fits", into the file "out.fits": 
                    
            ft> ffilecat "one.fits two.fits" out.fits "NAXIS NAXIS2"
            
    2.  Put the values of the keywords "NAXIS" and "NAXIS2" from a list of 
        files contained in the file "list.fil" (created, for example by using 
        'ls -1 *.fits> list.fil' in UNIX), the result is put in "out.fits",
        and all files with no values of "NAXIS" or "NAXIS2" are omitted
        
        ft> ffilecat "@list.fil" out.fits "NAXIS NAXIS2" omit=yes
    
    
BUGS
    
    
SEE ALSO
