GRPPHA2 (Oct 2002)              ftools.Integral              GRPPHA2 (Oct 2002)



NAME
    grppha2 -- Manipulates OGIP standard TYPEII PHA FITS file.
                 Both input and output files are of TYPEII PHA.
    
    
USAGE
    grppha2 infile outfile
            or
    grppha2 infile outfile respfile=resp ancrfile=ancr
            or
    grppha2 infile.pha outfile.pha respfile=@resp ancrfile=@ancr
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    
    GRPPHA2 is a tool to define or redefine the grouping (binning) & 
    quality flags, and the fractional systematic errors associated with 
    channels in a FITS PHA file. A new typeII FITS PHA file is written  
    which includes the latest settings. The various commands and their 
    syntax are described in the command summary below.
    
    It should be noted that none of the commands available within this  
    task change the actual PHA dataset itself (i.e., the observed counts 
    vs channel histogram) in any way. Instead, the necessary grouping, 
    quality & systematic error information for each channel is written 
    alongside the PHA dataset to be picked up by subsequent GRPPHA2 
    commands and downstream software (eg XSPEC).
    The commands are case insensitive and are provided either on the 
    command line, or in an ascii file.  In the former case, the commands 
    need to be separated by a comma, while in the latter case, the file 
    name must be preceeded by "@" sign. See examples below.
    A maximum of 50 commands can be given in a file. 
    NOTE: at the prompts for the spectra numbers and the command the user 
    can obtain help by typing "help" or "?". 

    Option provided for user to choose respfile and ancrfile column for
    output file as hidden parameter.  Otherwise specifically mentioned in 
    the command line, those columns will be used as in input file.
 
COMMAND SUMMARY
    
    There are 7 "families" of command strings currently implemented:
    
    1) group       - to group (or rebin) channels
    2) bad         - to set channels to bad quality (ignored by XSPEC etc)
    3) good        - to (re)set channels to good quality
    4) systematics - to set the fractional systematic error of the data
    5) quit or q   - to quit/exit the task
    6) exit or x   - to quit/exit the task
    7) help or ?   - interactive help
    
    The  various capabilities, limitations & syntax of each of the above
    are as follows:
    
    1) GROUP (or group)
         Sets the grouping flags such that the PHA dataset can be rebinned.  
         It is stressed that the group command does NOT change the observed 
         counts vs PHA channel dataset in any way.  Rather this command 
         fills the GROUPING column with appropriate flags to delineate 
         which channels start each new 'bin' (value = +1), and which are 
         part of a continuing 'bin' (-1).
         
         There are 3 methods by which the grouping can be set:
         
         GROUP MINCHAN MAXCHAN NCHAN
              The data is grouped from MINCHAN to MAXCHAN (inclusive)
              with NCHAN bins in each group. Any 'spare' channels will
              be left ungrouped and the user informed.  Any grouping
              requested which partially overlaps a pre-existing grouping 
              will also be ignored and the user informed.  
              
                 e.g.: group 10 20 2 
                 will set  the  grouping flag such that from channel 10
                 to channel 19 the data can be binned up by a factor 2,
                 channel 20 is "spare" and left unbinned.
                 
         GROUP MIN RCNTS
              The grouping is set such that each new grouping contains
              a minimum of RCNTS counts in each bin.  Channels that are
              defined as BAD are not included.  Any spare channels at
              the end of the data are defined BAD by the software 
              (QUALITY=2).
    
         GROUP @GRP_FILE.DAT
              The grouping information is read (free-format) from the
              data file "GRP_FILE.DAT".  This file is in ASCII format
              and can consist of up to 50 lines (sets of groupings,
              one per line) with the syntax MINCHAN MAXCHAN NCHAN,
              where these have the same meanings as above.  The rules
              regarding spare and overlapping groupings are as above
              
    2) BAD (or bad)
         Sets  the quality flags such that the specified channels can be
         ignored by certain subsequent commands (such as GROUP MIN RCNTS  
         above) and downstream software (eg XSPEC).  The quality flags of 
         unspecified channels are unchanged.
         
         There are 2 methods whereby channels can be set bad:
         
         BAD MINCHAN MAXCHAN
              Channels between MINCHAN and MAXCHAN (inclusive) are set
              bad (Quality  =  5).  
              
                 e.g.: bad  5 20
                 will  set  the  quality  flag  such  that channels 5 through 
                 20 are defined to be bad.
         
         BAD @BADFILE.DAT
              The quality information is read (free-format) from the
              data file "BADFILE.DAT".  This file is in ASCII format and
              can consist of up to 50 lines (sets of channel ranges,
              one per line) with the syntax MINCHAN MAXCHAN where these
              have the same meanings as above.  
              
    3) GOOD (or good)
         Sets the quality flags such that the specified channels are
         considered good (Quality  =  0).  The quality flags of 
         unspecified channels are unchanged.
         
         There are 2 methods whereby channels can be set good:
         
         GOOD MINCHAN MAXCHAN
              Channels between MINCHAN and MAXCHAN (inclusive) are set
              good should they not be so already.  
              
                 e.g.: good  6 18
                 will  set  the  quality  flag  such  that channels 6
                 through 18 are defined to be good.
                 
         GOOD @GOODFILE.DAT
              The quality information is  read  (free-format)  from  the
              data  file  "GOODFILE.DAT".  This  file is in ASCII format
              and can consist of up to 50 lines (sets of channel ranges,  
              one per line) with the syntax MINCHAN MAXCHAN where these  
              have the same meanings as above.  
              
    4) SYSTEMATICS (or systematics)
         Sets the fractional systematic error for each PHA channel which 
         should be combined with the corresponding statistical error on  
         the data to define the true (total) error on the data.  It is 
         stressed that this command obviously does NOT change the observed  
         (statistical) error associated with the PHA data.  Rather SYS_ERR 
         column is filled with the appropriate values, and the command is 
         therefore reversible.  There are 2 methods whereby the systematic 
         errors can be set:
         
         SYSTEMATICS MINCHAN MAXCHAN ERR
              Channels between MINCHAN and MAXCHAN (inclusive) will have  
              a fractional systematic error of ERR defined (ERR = 0.03 
              corresponds to a systematic error of 3% of the observed PHA  
              count rate for that channel).  
              
         SYSTEMATICS @SYSFILE.DAT
              The information regarding the fractional systematic errors   
              is read (free-format) from the data file "SYSFILE.DAT".  
              This file is in ASCII format and can consist of up to 50 
              lines (sets of channel ranges, one per line) with the 
              syntax MINCHAN MAXCHAN ERR where these have the same meanings 
              as above.
              
    5) QUIT or Q
         Quits from the task without performing any command..
         Same as Exit
         
    6) EXIT or X
         Exits the task without performing any command 
         Same as Quit
         
    7) HELP or ?
         Interactive  help,  lists available commands. 
         For interactive help for a particular command, "HELP COMMAND" will 
         give a description, and  the syntax.  For example, "HELP GROUP"  
         describes the grouping facility.


WARNINGS ON USAGE
    
    When the grouping command, "group MINCHAN MAXCHAN NCHAN" is used
    and an overlap occurs with a previous setting, the data is rebinned
    after the overlap if applicable.  Note: The "group min" command does 
    not check for any overlaps.
    
    
PARAMETERS
    
    infile [character]
        The  input  filename  containing the TYPEII PHA data in OGIP standard,
        as a BINARY  table FITS extension
    
    outfile [character]
        The name of the output file to be  created  (in  OGIP  standard
        format) containing TYPEII PHA data. 
    
    spectra_num [character] 
        The range of spectra (rows) to be input.  The default of "-" means
        all rows.  The first ten rows could be specified as "1-10" or just
        "-10".  To input the first ten rows and all rows from 100 through 
        the last (inclusive), use "1-10,100-".  An input of "1,3,7,23" will 
        do only those four rows."

    command [character]
         The command string at the prompt.  
         If string starts with "@" then it reads the ascii file following 
         the @ sign. 
         "help" displays help on available commands.
         "help group" displays help on group command.
    
    respfile [character][hidden]
         The root name of the response file column to be written.
         This is a hidden parameter and need to be provided at the command
         line.  If this parameter is provided by the user as respfile=root,
         then the respfile column of the output file contains filenames with
         "root_rowid[i].rmf"   
         Another way to use response file is if user uses respfile=@resp.
         In this case, the response file names for output file are read from
         the ascii file "resp". 
   
    ancrfile [character][hidden]
         The root name of the ancr file column to be written.
         This is a hidden parameter and need to be provided at the command     
         line.  If this parameter is provided by the user as ancrfile=root,
         then the ancrfile column of the output file contains filenames with
         "root_rowid[i].arf"  
         Another way to use ancronse file is if user uses ancrfile=@ancr.
         In this case, the ancr file names for output file are read from
         the ascii file "ancr".
 
    (chatter = 5) [integer]
         The value of the chatter flag, useful for reassurance & 
         diagnostics purposes.  The default value is chatter=5, with
         chatter <= 5 being very quite and chatter >= 20 very verbose.
    
    (clobber = false) [boolean]
        Flag specifying whether or not a pre-existing file with the
        same name as that requested as the output file from this task
        will be overwritten.
    
    
EXAMPLES
    
    To manipulate the PHA file "infile.pha", and write to "outfile.pha" 
    with the grouping commands,:
              grppha2 infile.pha outfile.pha
                       or
              grppha2 infile.pha outfile.pha respfile=root1 ancrfile=root2
                       or
              grppha2 infile.pha outfile.pha respfile=@resp ancrfile=@ancr

    
BUGS
    None known
    
    
SEE ALSO
     GRPPHA 
    
    
LOG OF SIGNIFICANT CHANGES
    
    v1.0.0 (1999 May)
            Initial public release
    v2.0.0 (1999 June)
            Provided option to use respfile and ancrfile names in the
            command line.
    v3.0.0 (2002 Oct)
            fixed bug

PRIMARY AUTHOR
    
    Banashree M Seifert


MODIFIED BY
  
   Chunhui Pan
